# The Kharmaan Ascent

The Kharmaan Ascent *(singular Kharmaan, plural Kharmaani)* is an interstellar power located in neighbouring space to the Skrell. The full extent of their territory is unknown, as it abuts the intergalactic gulf and Humanity is walled off from it by a narrow buffer of several Skrellian systems. Access to Ascent space is solely afforded through a series of interdicted DMZ systems littered with the debris of space battles both ancient and modern, and their borders are policed by breathtakingly violent and reactionary automated military squadrons. They are enormously advanced, insectoid in appearance, and number amongst the most vicious and violent aliens Humanity has ever encountered.

## Physiology and Biology

Kharmaani are universally hermaphroditic, with the vast majority of developing adults considered 'alates', or males. When a breeding season approaches, instigated by fluctuating magnetic fields either produced by their home planet or manufactured artificially, Kharmaani will congregate from many hundreds of kilometers around, gathering in a tense and frantic bout of reproductive warfare that sees dozens of potential parents vying for the best nesting spots. Only after several Earth days of this visual and audible sparring will the pheromones and hormonal surges result in some of the gathered Kharmaani spontaneously adopting the role and physiology of a breeding female, meaning that all Kharmaani are the children of multiple parents, reinforcing the splintered and solitary existence of an adult of the species.

Physically, the Kharmaani are extremely tall and slender. An adult Kharmaan stands almost two meters tall on average, with a third of this height made up by their elongated, slender necks. Humans have described the Kharmaani as 'insectile', but their physiology has very little in common with any known mammalian species; their skin is thin, rigid and segmented, as well as crystalline, offering the impression that the creatures are sculpted from liquid-filled, cloudy glass. They have three upper limbs, only one of which are usable for fine manipulation, and three pointed, single-toed legs; their primary means of locomotion is an undulating tail appendage that propels them in rapid leaps and bounds, steered by their lower limbs. They are evolved for a low gravity world, having some difficulty moving in standard Earth gravity without a period of adaptation, and their four eyes are large and specialized, suited for vision on both ends of the spectrum rather than the middle range that suits humans. Their bodies are extremely fragile, and it takes many years for a breeding gyne to heal completely from bodily damage; alates are much more robust, as they usually still have numerous moults before reaching their maturity.

### Lifecycle

* Born during a breeding spasm. Tiny translucent larva. No name, no identity.
* Crawl into the crust of the planet (caves, mud plains, fissures, oceans) to gestate. Take in minerals and are jiggered with by the magnetic field fluctuations, which is critical to development.
* Emerge and devour the chemical markers and encoded information left scattered all over the breeding site. Take the name of their mother and a number.
* Spent a lengthy period as a violent, paranoid, temperamental and single-minded alate, ensuring fitness to breed and carving out a niche of experience and understanding as a support for becoming a breeding gyne.
* During this period, either scatter widely to reduce food and material pressure on your mother or assist your newly-altered mother in building a fortress-nest.
* Alates are much less sensitive to population density than gynes, but at the same time are massively more vicious, cunning and violent. Attrition rates among developing alates are absurdly high and this kind of competition is heavily encouraged to keep population numbers stable post-scarcity.
* Reach maturation and experience one of the magnetic flux periods, entering into a breeding spasm. Take on a new name from your experiences and the geographic location that you matured in.
* Establish your fortress-nest with your brood, impart some stability to the area, establish a presence on the interplanetary information networks, buy stakes in the communally-shared industrial sectors.
* Eventually become old enough to be counted amongst the matriarches that control Kharmaani society, play the games of politics.
* Die and be eaten by your daughters.

## The Kharmaan

### Culture

The Kharmaani homeworld, referred to as Homeworld or Ascent by the Kharmaani themselves, is located somewhere in the amorphous centre of their stellar empire. It is a gas-shrouded, freezing, barren giant. The atmosphere is thin, bolstered by emissions from the planet's unstable crust, and the gravity is very weak despite the planet's size, leading to the evolution of many gliders and fliers that use the volcanic emissions and banks of warm, stinking fog for travel and hunting. The Kharmaani evolved as patient and solitary trappers, weaving webs and lattices of crystal filaments from their throat channels to both eviscerate the unwary fliers and to capture moisture and heat. Their use of the environment well-suited them to developing tools, and their brutal, swift and efficient nature led to many large wars before the planet was unified beneath a triumvirate of factional warlords.

Perhaps due to the thin atmosphere of their homeworld, the dim and freezing surface, or the need for silence when hunting, the Kharmaani evolved a language of bioluminescent flashes, using the liquid, crystal-seeded medium of their carapace to display dazzling bursts of colour and patterns of light. While they have since developed a curt, sharp audio language for use over communications, their traditional displays are preferred for face to face contacts, and the Skrell have since developed a lens that converts such displays into an audio message for the wearer.

Due to the intrinsic link between Kharmaan birth and maturity, and both the matter of the crust and the magnetic fluxes of their homeworld, Kharmaani spirituality deals largely with the breeding gynes as repositories or avatars for the territory under their sway, and the history of each genetic lineage as a history of the world. To almost all Kharmaani, the matriarch of a given fortress-nest is for all intents and purposes the living soul of her territory. When she dies, she is consumed by her daughters so that the land loses nothing, and should she be killed outside of old age or an accident, the killer and their entire generation of alates are marked as anthema and violently and unrelentingly cast out of the Ascent, left to wither away among alien stars.

### Government

Politically, the Ascent is aggressive and ruthless in pursuing their goals; any perceived threat is met with the maximum available force and hounded until it either leaves Ascent space or is destroyed. The internal hierarchy of the Ascent is composed of a network of individual breeding gynes with territories spanning vast swathes of the Ascent homeworld; this tenuous network of religious, political and industrial power keeps the disparate, largely automated Kharmaani colonies and habitats unified.

The Ascent exists in uneasy harmony with the Skrell, their immediate neighbors and reputed nemeses, after several protracted and cautious wars that ended with only three craft (one Skrell, two Kharmaan) destroyed over a sixty year period. The Ascent and the Skrellian government now maintain trading and research ties as well as a frosty but cordial peace agreement.

The Ascent has not yet deigned to contact Humanity with political representation, largely because by the Byzantine and convoluted metrics of the Kharmaani, humans are not sentient and hence cannot be a threat. This impression is being reinforced by careful work by the Skrell to try and prevent a potential war.

### Society

Kharmaani do not usually form close-knit social groups or congregate in large numbers. On their homeworld, it is rare to find more than two or three Kharmaani gynes and a handful of alates within the same twenty kilometer radius outside of reproductive groupings, a fresh brood constructing or maintaining a fortress-nest, or a breeding gyne nurturing young. The Ascent worlds have no cities of Kharmaani construction; bunkers and small habitations are common, as are traditionally woven web structures and fog collectors that display the lineage and achievements of the weaver. The largest Kharmaani structures are usually built within natural geological features such as ravines or craters; they are translated as fortress-nests in Human languages, but in the Kharmaani cipher the meaning is much deeper, indicating a manifestation of the will of the Homeworld given shape. Fortress-nests are inhabited solely by a single matriarch and potentially her daughters, and act as cultural and religious hubs, as well as centres of regional stability. The older the matriarch, or the older her unbroken genetic line, the more territory can be expected to be under her sway. Fortress-nests are organised with the complex web of shifting authority and political manipulation that forms the Ascent stellar government, and generally ensure that critical resources like food and metal are not disrupted by the warring between first-generation gynes or competing alate swarms.

When moving among aliens, the Kharmaani are occasionally forced into grouping together, an arrangement that rarely if ever goes well for them. For this reason, many Kharmaani spacecraft are almost completely automated, and all are very large even when carrying crews of two or three gynes with a subsidiary crew of several alates or advanced drones. Many Kharmaani ships, particularly military ships, are completely automated.

The vicious wars that once flared across the Ascent worlds have now been largely replaced with ritualized performances before a local authority. These can take the form of poetry, dancing, rhetoric and oratory, the reveal of some form of new technology, or any other demonstration of value and worth. They will often accord this same right to members of other species facing the violent wrath of the Ascent, if only for humour value. Actual gladiatorial combat or violence is reserved for young alates, largely as a form of population control and education, and outside of this is usually reserved for those accused of a crime that warrants their death.

### Technology

Technologically, the Kharmaani have invested heavily in automation, robotics and industrial systems. Their fragility makes them entirely unsuited to the menial tasks of developing an industrial society, and they have had synthetic intelligence for longer than they have had radio communications. In war, the Kharmaani make extensive use of mechanized systems and stealth technology, showing a natural aptitude for pattern recognition, camouflage and the arts of the hunt. Even as a stellar empire, the Kharmaani are a solitary people, preferring to use robotic servants and communications links to deal with the outside world. Many leading Kharmaani figures are rumoured to have died years ago, with only their public image preserved by their loyal servants.

### Relations

* FTU/Corporate space: No formal contact. Border scuffles with individual ships. Humans are considered dumb animals and their space is not yet valuable to the Ascent. Exiled elements may be providing tech to booster groups in the Wolf border systems.
* The Skrell: Peaceful. Unarmed Skrellian craft including dionaea-assisted ships are permitted in all Ascent systems other than the Homeworld. Non-automated Ascent vessels with no more than three gynes are permitted in Skrell space if registered with local planetary authorities.
* Dionaea gestalts: Tolerated in colony systems, destroyed on sight if approaching the Homeworld system. Unclear if the Ascent considers them intelligent or just harmless.
* Vox Shoal: Unclear. Very very unlikely to be friendly relations.
* Ahdomai: No contact.
* Moghes Hegemony: No contact.