# What Else Do You Wanna Know?

**his will be updated as time goes by and more information that is trivial knowledge in the Baynverse is created. IT is a constant Work in Progress*

### Did You Know: The Culture of the 26th Century

##### Music

As humanity has progressed, so as the way it fills leisure activities. Beginning with the 21st Century and on into the 22nd Century,
music expansion fell with the problems that fell upon humanity. Music became darker, and heavier- Synthetic sounds mixed with the
brass and wood of older music to create a "Post-Industrial" style, with what can only be described in 21st Century terms as "Nine Inch
Nails meets Bob Dylan." As time went by, Jazz became more popular, and started to involve synthetic sounds as well. Bass music,
electronic drums, off-beat patterns with static helped fill the already insane patterns of Jazz Music which rose to new prominence in 
the 22nd Century. The popular music of the early 21st Century had blended with other styles, such as Reggae and Hip Hop, and Pop,
into "Reg-Pop," a slow, chill beat wave of vocal harmonizing and good vibes. Ancient hits such as "Bars on Mars" and "Bring Me In, 
Space Captain" became famous from this period. 

Country music died out as time went by, and was mostly replaced by a revamped Blues sound into the later days after the 21st Century, 
and then, it was really only heard in backwater areas, dying almost entirely in the Urban World.

The 24th Century saw the rise of "Post-Stat," a strange mix of the 23rd Century's Static Jazz, and psychedelic rock. Reg-Pop was still
very popular, but New Wave Metal was taking the cities by storm. The historic band, Three Seraphs, led this wave and became one of the
best selling bands of all time, even surpassing the famous Beatles of the 20th Century.
25th Century music began to bend other senses into it, and the Electronic Music was its forefront. Electradelic, a mixture of "EDM" 
and "Psychedelic" was new and exciting, and music was changing majorly with this. No longer was it just a hearing stimulus, but some 
concerts even had the senses of touch, or taste, or sight change with the music to create a new way of sound.

26th Century continued this Sensory Music, as it exploded into other genres as well, the Metallic Synthetic (26th Century's popular 
style of Metal music) became infamous for its "Death Vibrations" which have been known to cause seizures and heart attacks from the 
intensive feelings that are released. Post-Electradelic and Funk-Punk were popular too, with the "Indie" sounds of Reds (a new version
of Blues music that focused on lyrics of sex and violence) was becoming popular, but also criticized for the brutal imagery that was 
produced. Ambient Metal is also very popular, as well as Unathi Metal. AM is all about the "ambient" quality of environment with the 
heavy strength of Metal. UM mixes the Metal music of Earth with Unathi culture, and is usually seen in fringe societies. The "Ravaged 
Unathi" UM band is quite popular in this environment and is also at the forefront of Unathi Rights issues in the stellar community, a 
movement that is often compared to the Black Panther movement in the 20th Century.

##### Television and Film

Though very popular in the 21st Century, TV had started to die out mostly by the 22nd Century, replaced with Holographic Shows and a 
resurgence of Theatre. Movies were still popular, but as the same, Holographic was on the verge of society. This became the general 
trend for the next century too, with it growing more and more complex. Eventually it became so detailed, you could sit in a room with 
a Holographic movie playing and feel like you're in the world, even feeling the environment somewhat. 

By the 26th Century, Holographic Media had started to stagnate, replaced by a more VR type of experience, or stimulus directly to the 
brain known as "Memory Flicks." 

##### Writing

Just as the 21st Century was primarily focused on scifi writings, the 26th century went back in time to the Medieval era for its 
popular writings. The future has been reached, and people want to see the life of the past, before planets and star systems were 
explored. Fictional stories taking place in the ancient War of the Roses in England, the Punic Wars of Rome and Carthage, and other 
far away events shape the Novels of the modern day. The writing styles of the Beat Generation and the Lost Generation of the 20th 
Century are also highly used by such authors as Zach Lynch, Ss'iek Jareek, and Monterm Blackheart (the winners of the Chaucer Awards 
for the last three years, in order). 

##### Art

Shapism, the dominant form of art in the 21st Century, had died out by the 26th Century, and had been replaced with more digital 
projections. "Neo-Impressionism" as it is called, become dominant in the 23rd and 24th Centuries, itself being a return to the 
Impressionistic styles of the 19th Century, but of the modern inventions of space flight, new technology, and alien life. 

Romantic Expressionism was moving to the front of Art by the 25th Century, a mixture between some Abstract qualities, and Romantic 
qualities (colors defining the art rather than shape, basically, and being more abstract than structured). This also came with the 
beginning of the Dimensional Art, where paintings have an actual depth to them. By the 26th Century, Dimensional Surrealism was the 
main form of painting that was being created, a return to the art style of Salvador Dali, and Max Ernst, as well as the cultural 
movement that they grew from in the early 20th Century.

##### Consumer Goods

With there being multiple massive corporations in the known universe, they all have different well-known products that they offer.  Specifically, more lore on sodas and cigarette types can be found here: [Consumer Goods](https://baystation12.net/lore/Technology/Consumer50%Goods)

____

#### Did You Know:

The farthest system in Human-controlled space that has a functioning colony is known as the "Trajan" System, named after the ancient 
Roman Emperor in the earlier years of Anno Domini.

____

#### Did You Know:

Vat-grown Humans have a very simple naming pattern. Either "Name," "Name-NNN," "LL-Name," or "LL-NNN" the Ls are letters and the Ns
are numbers. 

____

#### Did You Know:

Cloning works through a mesh lace, which is a prosthetic that can be attached to your body.

____

#### Did You Know:

The Torch is not the only ship in the Expeditionary Corps. Another very famous one is the SEV Magnus which disappeared in 2560. 

____

#### Did You Know: 

SPACE Magazine was created in 2559 to bring news to different parts of Human space, and can be bought or accessed in virtually every system in Human controlled space.
