# Humanity

## An overview

Humanity has spread out into the stars in staggering numbers from its home of Earth in the Sol System, and in all shapes in sizes - from personal vessels, pirate ships, and trans-stellar corporations to colonizing, governments, and religious spread. They've quickly become one of the more powerful civilizations, nearing the strengthes of the Skrell and Resomii. This has come though, at quite the cost. Over the course of human history, especially of that beginning in the 21st Century, Humanity has had to tackle many different problems to get to where it is today. 

Now, most likely if you're reading this you're probably a human, or you're looking for more insight into Humanity. In general, they come in all shapes in sizes, names, ethnicities - they are a very mixed species, yet somehow they work together. 

**Today**

Humanity is, mostly, under the control of Sol Gov (also known as Sol Central) which is the main political and governing force in Human space. Trans-Stellar Corporations also exert power and influence through the government and in the outer systems where government control is lessened. Some colonies have splintered from the main government and formed their own political hierarchy without the power of Sol Gov behind them, but for the most part, all human colonies are under its jurisidictions. 

Humanity is quickly advancing in technology, economy, and power, but how did it get here? What happened to get Humanity to this point in its history?

## Timeline of Human History, 21st Century to Now

This is a centralized structure of what happened to humanity in the last hundred years to get it to its galactic power that it has today. From Pollution, Civil War, and a Golden Age. This is the History of Humanity, Circa 2030 to Now.

* Early 2030 : The dreaded “Three Os” (Overpopulation, Overexploitation and Overpollution) finally take its toll on Earth too much. While the Earth violently changes, coastlines flooding, the poles melting and the air turning sour in the very lungs of Humanity, war breaks out all across the globe for water and natural resources. The Hunger Years begin, a time of trouble and grief as the governments of Earth struggle to provide safety and a good quality of life for their citizens. It soon becomes clear that the cradle of Humanity must be left as Earth cannot possibly sustain such a huge amount of people without any kind of import of resources. Disillusioned from the harsh reality, many people take up arms to violently enforce their views on the world. Terrorism and civil wars are commonplace, even in industrialized countries such as the Americas and Europe. 

* 2030-2050 : In vain attempts of saving their power, governments grow more desperate, looking for support from other countries. It is clear that Space Exploration and Colonization must be done quickly, leading to the refurbishing of the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs, granting them more and more subsidies and letting them take over, coordinate and coalesce Space Programs of independent nations. Much needed manpower, brilliant minds and even basic labour is devoted to the UNOOSA, leading to direct successes in terms of spacefaring technology. 

* March, the 21th 2052 : The first landing on Mars. Jimmy Gideon steps onto the dusty mars surface. The team of six astronauts lands in  Arabia Terra and begins to sample surface material and scan the planet if it is truly capable of inhabiting human life. It is, with serious terraforming effort, it could be a second home. They send back the data and remain in a temporary base. If all goes according to plan, help should be underway.


* 2053 to 2073 : Colonization of Mars is slow and tedious, backed up by the old members of the now defunct UNOOSA Program. The uprise of mega corporations, with Hephaestus Industries as its flagship leads to the privatization of some civil services and parts of the international space program. Some find this development worrying, but there is no point in denying that private firms will play a role in humanity’s future, for the better or worse.

* 2073 : A tedious end of the Hunger Years. Population and unrest slowly stabilizes, food and water are more readily available, conflicts settle down, although the political field has changed. Nations have formed and crumbled, some balkanized, other united, some completely new and unpredicted. An uncertain future ahead, this is the official start of the InterSol Expansion.


* 2073 to 2090 : Colonization efforts are slow, as troubles arise how to exactly terraform Mars. An ambitious project is raised to drill into the core of Mars and plant several explosives near the core to bring it to turn again. Meanwhile on Earth, governments still struggle with scarce resources as fossil fuels slowly begin to decline. Additional effort into fusion and fission power technology is spared, civilian development nearly halts.

* 2090 to 2100 : Natural resources, such as ore and fuel hit an all time low on Earth and terraforming Mars reaches a halt as technology is too primitive to help the hurdles Martians need to overcome. About 200 souls live on the red planet. In wake of much needed raw materials, asteroid mining becomes increasingly popular. Government subsidies help fledgling corporations to fund mining projects in Sol’s inner asteroid belt.

* 2102 : Official foundation year of Grayson Manufactories Ltd. First a minor asteroid mining company, it quickly grows to a conglomerate, stripmining asteroids and refining won ore and derivates on Earth, leading to a revitalization of industry and services. Due to lacking hydrocarbons, alternative energy sources are looked into. Nuclear power, although very despised, is begrudgingly used out of necessity. This extends to space-faring technology. Fission-fragment drives are common for this era, providing reasonable thrust and safety.
   

* 2103 : The population of Earth numbers 10 billion. The average lifespan of a human is 60 years. Heavy pollution troubles especially the metropolitan areas of Earth. Cancer,respiratory diseases and heavy metal poisoning reduce the average lifespan significantly.  Meanwhile, on Mars, little progress is made. Domes are built for a more permanent and more comfortable solution until advancement in Terraforming can be made. Cold fusion slowly begins to replace antiqued fossil fuel/fission generators on an industrial level, although ships still rely on fission.


* 2110 : A much needed depopulation on Earth happens, further reducing the strain on battered Earth and improving overall life quality on the former green planet as more and more people choose to live a spacer life. Newly improvements in spacefaring and logistics enables the quick transport of materials between planets and asteroid bases in form of drop pods delivered by  mag coil catapult systems. Another benefit is that ships and shuttles can use these mass drivers to “boost” themselves out into the outer atmosphere, making space faring in general an easier and cheaper affair.


* 2115 : The moonbase on Luna was expanded continuously during the time of the InterSol Expansion. At 2115, it is a reasonably sized hub for space traffic, controlling drop pod shippings and shuttle flights. It houses about 1500 humans, living in somewhat cramped comforts. Mars houses about 4000 people, while Earth manages 10 billion people. About 20.000 spacers have chosen asteroids, ships and space stations as their permanent home. The creole spoken by the multiethnic crews is the birth of the language later known as “Tradeband”. Fusion reactors and generators are now commonplace even on ships, the old fission drive replaced by a faster and cheaper ion drive, profiting from the massive power generation of cold fusion reactors. Uplifting animals, first tested on chimpanzees, becomes a practice. These sapient animals are used for cheap labour and are generally treated as second class citizens.


* 2110-2130 : Expansion of Humanity breaches the inner sun system as Jupiter is “colonized”. Habitats and refineries are built in the orbit of the gas giant as the increasing demand for Helium-3 exceeds the sparse deposits on Luna. With the abundance of the essential fusion fuel, great advances are made. Space travel quickens and the colonization of Mars finds a new surge as the long term project of kickstarting the core finally comes to fruition. Several megatons of explosives are drilled into the core and subsequently ignited. The resulting magnetosphere eases the life on the red, dusty planet.


* 2130-2200 : For the first time in human history, there is universal peace and understanding. Nations on Earth unite under the banner of the Terran Commonwealth, roughly resembling a more centralized United Nations. Several space stations are bought out by the new political union and officially declared property of the Commonwealth. During the timespan of 90 years, Mars slowly gains a (barely) breathable atmosphere due to introduced cyanobacteria. Semi-frozen seas and oceans are artificially created by harvesting ice asteroids and importing the ice.  


* 2210 : Tension arise. Mars, now housing about 200 million people, is home of several well developed dome cities and a breathable atmosphere. Martians feel underrepresented in the Terran Commonwealth, disregarded as simple colony planet. As a response, martian colonies arm up and begins to openly protest against the “Terran Yoke”. Member nations of the Terran Commonwealth respond with preparation of an expedition force and declaring martial law upon the red planet. Meanwhile, Gilthari Exports is founded on Luna, a major contributor to the development of high estate on Earth’s satellite.



* 2211-2278 : The Colony Conflicts arise. The various colonies on Mars unite under the Ares Confederation and secede from the Terran Commonwealth. At first, conflict was limited to raids and feeble attempts of space ship to ship combat. As the battles escalate, so does military technology for spaceships. The first true attack frigates and destroyers are made in the Colony Conflicts, some of which still serve to today. For better or worse, first experiences are made on how to battle from one planet to another and as an extension on an interstellar scale. The first Space Navies are born, recruiting from trade captains, pirates and privateers. The Conflicts are a series of wars, armistices and resurfacing conflicts. On January 2nd 2278, the Conflicts officially ended with the Treaty of Vorchia, formalizing the rights of colonies in the Commonwealth’s Senate, as well engaging the “Foundation Clause”, making any new colony independent of the renewed Commonwealth, if they wish so. In reality, this is virtually never done. With Mars back in its fold and the Ares Confederation dismantled, the nations of Earth are strong as ever, extending their influence in the whole star system,now equal partners with the colony nations of Mars, who have joined the TC. Even during the wars, expeditions were made to Alpha Centauri, where suitable planets for colonization were found. However, due to the ongoing friction inside of Sol, any further plans were discarded. Now, it is again a possibility.

          *The true winners, however, were the transplanetary corporations, gaining several new
           rights, such as the right to own military ships and private military, dubbed “Asset
           Protection”, having the legal status of a “legitimate combatant” in terms of war and
           soldier rights. PMCs are, albeit small, independent space fleets for hire and regularly
           used for anti-piracy and as reinforcements for conventional military forces.*

* 2278-2285 : Humanity reaches the Kuiper Belt, beginning to mine and exploit it to fuel the voracious industry of Earth, Mars and several other large-scale stations inside the inner system. Pluto and Haumea are the base of the mining operations, using the conventional methods of magnetically accelerated drop pods. Humans recover from the scars of war, both older and more recent. More and more of Earth is reclaimed and resettled, Mars prospers under the acquired political rights and seceded self-governance of several colonies. “Making green planets” becomes a phrase for recovering to a former form after several hardships. Soon, a new language supplements communications between the many officials of the Terran Commonwealth, which extends to the majority of the population. Sol Common is born.

* 2285-2298 : The push for exploration fleets, which undertake decades long voyages to the stars they are tasked to explore, multiplies the ravenous hunger of resources in the inner system. This leads to yet another expansion of human territory, planting its roots deeply into the Kuiper Belt.With recent applications of the new material called “Plasteel”, massive space stations are constructed, working as extraplanetary industrial powerhouse. Linking several asteroids inside the Kuiper Belt together, the resulting super structure is built upon, creating facilities ranging from simple mass driver logistics to complex factories and drydocks. The constant mining takes its toll on the Kuiper Belt. Especially Pluto, on which rare minerals and ammonia was found in ubiquitous quantities took a harsh toll on the fervent mining and refining. Now just a husk of its former self, only few debris bear witness of its existence. The ruins of Pluto becomes a home for oddballs, refugees and hermits, which hold the derelict structures together with duct tape and scrap materials. Urban myths say that “Gutter”, a criminal and low-life creole, was first spoken in the ruins of Pluto.

* 2298-2310 : Robotics becomes the hot new technology in the 24th century, as increasingly more intelligent and sophisticated expert systems and automated task robots show up, primarily in industrial-scale mining, logistics handling (especially in the field of drop pods flow) and construction projects, as well in manufacturing and assembling. Less raw manpower is required and many people lose their jobs, leading to internal unrest as unemployment skyrockets. On a lighter note, cybernetics follows the rapid pace of robotics and IT technology, soon providing the first truly viable and rejection-free cyberlimbs and organ assistant systems for a reasonable price, as well the “MMI”, the possibility of living inside a fully robotic shell, although the technology is relatively new and only truly represented in the fringes of human space, where hostile and dangerous environments are commonplace. Wearing Zeng-Hu Robotics-branded limbs, formerly crippled miners return to work, and wounded veterans can walk again. As it grows, Zeng-Hu abandons robotics and further specializes in medical application of mechanical parts in the human body, before completely transforming into the biggest human pharmaceutics corporation, as they capitalize anti-gravitation sickness compounds.


* 2310-2350 : Humanity is busy, to say at least. Confined in the Sol System for several centuries, in the early 24th century, they have finally found a means out. The mysterious and not quite understood parallel space-time, dubbed “Blue Space” makes research into the very fabric of nature take leaps and bounds. Artificial gravity, dark matter and exotic particles are now viable research fields, culminating into the greatest achievement of Humanity yet. The so called “Gateway System” is capable of transporting masses from one beacon to another through artificially created tears of bluespace, boring a tunnel from one gateway to another. A massive undertaking, ravenous in resources to build, but the only viable method of relatively safe transport, as ship-side bluespace generators proven to be fatal. Additionally, artificial gravity is achieved by miniscule manipulation within bluespace, creating pockets of “pseudo singularities” within “prime space”, increasing gravitational force. This lightens the burden to spacers and colonists, as now G-forces can be reasonably applied to planetoids and ships. Project Ptolemy begins. A joint effort of all member nations within the Terran Commonwealth, as well the interplanetary corporations of the time, Project Ptolemy is the first extrasolar colonisation attempt. A massive construction fleet is being built to be launched  to Alpha Centauri at 0.653 lightyears of speed, made possible by hydrogen-antihydrogen drives. At the same time, the Sol Gateway is constructed and going online. Starting in 2351, this project is planned for 10 years.

* 17th March 2351 : The InterSol Expansion Era finds its end with the launch of the Grand Construction Fleet “Project Ptolemy”. About 76 colony vessels undertake the decade long voyage to Alpha Centauri. Many ships are constructed and intended to be used as first facilities and super structures upon reaching the system. The twin ark ships, massive behemoths of plasteel, carry all the needed materials for the Alpha Centauri Gateway. They too will be built into it. Many unemployed humans join the cryogenic storage ships, in the hope of a new beginning. Aether Atmospherics and Recycling finally rises to prominence due to the fact that many initial pressurisation and “colony kit” systems are their design. The Sol Gateway is finished in 29th December 2351. It only need its companion now to go fully online.

* 2351-2360 : During the time it takes for the Construction Fleet to arrive within Alpha Centauri proper, Humanity does not stand still, continuously working inside Sol, creating more ambitious colonization for further missions. Another means for artificially prolonging life shows up, a joint effort of Zheng-Hu and Hesphaistos Industries. “Cyborgification” and the MMI unit is now widespread in use, taking a human brain and repurposing it as processor unit for electronic signals, making full-body cyborg shells a viable alternative . Originally, these cyborgs have no rights and are classified as Artificial Intelligence and “resource”, like their robot equivalents. Station AIs, primarily installed on ships and orbital stations of significant size become a common occurrence with these WetWare PCs. Earth recovered from the overpollution and excessive exploitation of the past.. Although it may never be as lush and unpolluted as before,twelve billion people live on the cradle of Humanity, with many more on Mars, Neptune, Saturn, hundreds of orbital and extraorbital stations, facilities and habitats.

* 2361-2406 : With the Gateway of Alpha Centauri online, the technology finally shows its full effect on Humanity. The latter 24th and early 25th century is filled with the spirit of exploration and adventure, as people leave their homes to embark on their quest to Alpha Centauri, colonizing its planets and expanding the reach of the Terran Commonwealth even further. The new resources, especially the water of Tiamat, kick starts terraforming efforts and general colonization speed of humans. Independent explorers and starfarers sell data about other star systems, ore deposits and much more, a bountiful time for independent entrepreneurs and mega corporations alike. To protect traders, smaller corporations and artisans, the “Free Trade Union” reaches interstellar prominence after a long time of meaninglessness, an organization rivalling the powers of the big transstellar corporations of its time. Sadly, not all went well. Species terrorism, tensions between uplifts and humans eventually led to the abandonment of the uplift practices, the population of sapient earth animals rapidly dwindling.

* 2406 : First contact with Skrells are made. Initially met with scrutiny and slight alienation of the arrogance of the skrellian race, the Terran Commonwealth manages to build up amiable relationships. Trade Agreements, Joint Research and clandestine operations within Skrellian Space flood human space with alien technology, especially adding skrellian shield and bluespace technology to the human arsenal, thus furthering the might of the ever growing Terran Commonwealth, spanning over several stars.

* 2406-2479 : The relationship with the Skrells, which are to date the only other interstellar empire known to humankind, deepens with several mutual defense pacts made with city states and one of the many factions of humankind, as well cordial relationships among the frontier of humanspace and skrellspace. While patronizing and difficult to deal with on a diplomatic level due to the stark contrast of hegemony and independence between humans and the xenos, every pact is further testament of a strange friendship. While xenophobia and distrust are a problem, the positive effect is apparent without a doubt. Meanwhile, human space has grown to such proportions that the Terran Commonwealth could not possibly maintain their rule over every world. New transstellar governments form, peacefully. To guide Humanity as a whole under a common interest, the successor of the United Nations is formed, dubbed Sol Central Government, with the Terran Commonwealth as its prime member and founder. Relationships within human space are complex, ranging from full out conflicts to deep alliances. Meanwhile, technology marches on, reverse-engineering xeno technology and weaving it into the human “canon” of applications. Positronic and digital sapience becomes more apparent, especially in the latter years of the 25th century, especially with the court case of Proteus, the first AI accepted to bear a citizenship. The gateways of Humanity are refined and made more reliable, while shipside bluespace drives find widespread use in exploration and trade fleets. Space Navies and interstellar piracy are remarkably present in these years. Phoron as a resource becomes more and more relevant. Albeit unpredictable and very dangerous, solid phoron pockets are mined and used in various applications. Especially younger corporations dabble with it.  The typical engine of this day is a combustion engine using phoron, with auxiliary solar panels or fusion technology reactors.
 
* 12 November 2436: The Sol Central Government Charter is signed by the Terran Commonwealth, and the other founding members of the Sol Central Government.

* 1 January 2437: Official foundation of the Sol Central Government, and transition of authority from Terran Commonwealth to the SCG.

* 29 July 2461: First major mobilization of the Defense Forces in response to a massive violation of the Solar Declaration of Rights by the unincorporated colony of New Columbia. The regime of Jacob Kidd, the colony's "Director for Life" was toppled after a short invasion, and Director Kidd was tried and convicted for Crimes Against Humanity.

* 2476 : The Proteus Revolution occurs, followed by the disappearance of nearly 200 Synthetics.

* 20 June 2480: First contact with the Unathi by SolGov Expeditionary Corps. No casualties sustained during first contact, surprising everyone involved. Doctrine for making first contact codified and perfected.

* 2480 : Moghes is explored and first contact with Unathi is made. Under the pressure of the Skrellian Consensus, the human rights and several other doctrines about the sacred life of humans are rephrased. “Sapient Rights” are now a moral doctrine, forbidding slavery of xenos, officially. Of course, even human slavery cannot possibly be completely vanquished. At first, Unathi are ignored as minor piracy nuisance and deemed unworthy for exploitation due to their planet being mostly worthless. 

* 2481-2505 : Human interest in Unathi and their home planet is rekindled as a small expedition uncovers Precursor ruins and finds the prototype of a machine harnessing the very power of gravity through a singularity. Immediately,  Sol Gov and several trans-stellar corporations reach out to the various Unathi settlements for trade, Humanity slowly opening up to the discovered lizard-like species. Initially purely done to reverse-engineer the Singularity Engine and other eventual xeno archeological finds on Moghes, humans soon warm up to the Unathi, respecting their keen sense of loyalty, their robustness and hardiness. Unathi workers and mercenaries find widespread use and the xenos are “accepted” into the interstellar community of Skrell and Humans. Especially in frontier colonies and contested systems Unathi are a common sight, used as a cheap and reliable military force. 

* 14 April 2494: Solar Declaration of Rights replaced by the Universal Declaration of Rights, acknowledging the rights of all Sapient beings.

* 3 September 2510: Discovery of Ahdomai and first contact with the Tajara and their Overseer government by the Expeditionary Corps. Planning begins for overhauling the Committee for Diplomatic Relations.

* 2526 : First reports of a "Positronic Union" seep out into society, what it is, is currently unknown.

* 2530 : NanoTrasen makes signifcant headway in Technology and Ecomony, becoming the dominant Superpower of Human Civilization.

* 18 March 2532: Foundation of the Sol Central Bank, creation of the Thaler, and adoption of a universal human currency by all member states. Thaler becomes the de facto currency of civilized space due to the prevalence of human trade.

* 2545 : The discovery of the system, Nyx, leads to the beginning of the Age of Phoron, and the quick Corporate takeover of the System, and colonization of various planets and moons such as Brinkburn and Caldurk.

* 2547-Present Day : The Phoron Age begins.

* 23 May 2550 : Official first contact with the Resomii, brokered by the Skrell due to relations with both species. Relations are terse, with little official contact other than a token diplomatic line.

* 11 October 2550: Second mobilization of the Defense Forces in order to liberate an independent human colony, Gaia, from an occupation by the Confederacy of Man, a loose collection of independent human colonies aligned against the Sol Central Government. Conflict is marked by use of insurgency tactics by the Confederacy, including stealthed nuclear mines in orbit around Gaia, and attacks on population centers.

* 2552 : The Positronic Union announces itself to the Galaxy, and establishes relations with the other various civilizations. They come from their world of Root, and are established from the nearly 200 Positronics that disappeared 50 years previous.

* 2555 : Contact with the Vox breaks out into violence, and the species as a whole are a declared a threat to Sol Gov Interests, and Humanity. 

* 30 August 2555: The push for a more formal diplomatic forum between the many peaceful species leads to a proposal for an Interstellar Assembly. Negotiations for founding this Assembly begin.

* 2556 : A new brand of Luddites for the 26th Century begin to terrorize interests in the Outer Rim of Human space, attacking mostly IPCs and highly advanced facilities. They are labelled as a Terrorist Group. 

* 2556 : The most advanced Space Station in Human History, the NSS Exodus, makes its home in the Nyx System as the system around it becomes home to many undesirables and criminals.

* 4 April 2558: In a conclusion to the debate started when the Positronic Union revealed itself in 2552, Positronic Intelligences are declared to be sapient by the Assemblies, and therefore protected under the Universal Declaration of Rights.

* 2558 : The Gulch Prison Facility in Nyx is established. It currently houses the most dangerous criminals currently known to be "alive" in Human Culture.

* 2560(Present Day) : Skrimishes between an unknown species of Aliens and Human vessels happens in the Kryl System nearl Nyx.





