# A-Moraki na Harsekee 
**The Moraki as a Society**

The Moraki are a vast empire stretch who can trace their earliest settlements and civilizations to the days when Humanity were still drawing pictures in Caves. The first recorded “civilization” on the Moraki Homeworld of Qyno date back to some time around 9500 BCE, and since then they have developed in such a strange way that it is hardly possible to compare them to the known races.

Today, the Imperiate stretches across hundreds of systems, each of which contains a single Hive World, or Sk-Qyno (Nu-Home, in Galactic Common). The Hive Worlds each have a single Administrator, who is always a Breeder, that represents the Hive World at the Harseaem Bosno, a grand meeting of the Imperiate’s Leaders that takes place every Qyno-Month (76 Earth Days).

Hive Worlds are known as such due to the type of “Cities” that are built on them. Firstly, there is only one city. A single, grand, sprawling city that stretches across the horizon for hundreds of miles, and builds ontop of itself over and over. In Moraki Ideology, separating from the ‘Hars-Moraki” or “The People” is against their nature, so further development of cities is never done. The homeworld of Qyno itself is a giant city, with its atmosphere being generated by machines rather than the plantlife.

Another problem with their worlds is the fact that they breath, inhale, and live in a Chlorine-based atmosphere. Their entire biology is based around such, and the frequency of Chlorine Atmospheres in the Galaxy is...limited. There is only one that the Moraki know of: Qyno.

When the Moraki began their venture into the stars, they developed the technology for city hubs, generated atmospheric devices to cover massive swaths of land, and terraforming (which is ultimately a failure due to the complexity of a Chlorine atmosphere in reaction to other atmospheres as noted by the “Illuvia Esser, or Massacre.” This is an excerpt from a Moraki Void-Knight translated to Common:


*“The Hiveworlds are children, of the Grand City. We bring the idea, the seed, of the Grand City to these new worlds for the People to grow and build. We take much of the planet’s land, yes, and we hope to find a new world for the next Grand City, but it shall not be in our life time.”*


From a numerical standpoint, the average Hiveworld has a population of 500 million or more, and the expansion process usually means outward and upward. The second largest, Boga, has covered nearly the entire planet in towers and buildings, with a wildlife reserve meant for hunting being near the outer edges of Boga. The Grand City, or Qyno, makes Earth look empty. The total number of residences is unaccountable.

Space Travel through the Imperiate is common, and highly operative, with trade between the different Hiveworlds of Slaves and Beasts from beyond the borders of the Imperiate taking most of the ships you see in trade lanes. Slavery and Beastmastery is a part of the Moraki culture, with creatures from various worlds making up the market. It is quite common to see a Moraki Void Knight with at least one Shafra, or Hunting Dog (concept picture). The Shafra were originally indigenous to Qyno, with other forms of them being spread throughout the system, but since the early days of travel most are the product of cloning and breeding outside of the planet. Infact, all of the original life from Qyno is produced this way, and spread throughout the various Hive Worlds


Slavery is, as stated, a part of their society. Either other Moraki, or other species. The most common slave to find is a subspecies of the Moraki known as “Egyno,” which does not have a translation into Common but is most likely similar to “Lesser.” They have attempted many rebellions, insurrections, and revolutions throughout their shared history, but all have failed. Egyno has come to describe any and all of those that are sub-Moraki, or lesser to them. Vox can be also often be found in their service, but usually for sport.


## The Ideology

*In the Beginning there was The Fire. And there was Not. The Fire spread, and consumed but did not exist. It was the time not set yet, and so the Not moved around The Fire. 

As Age came The Fire grew, and born the People. With Time came life from the Flame, but did they exist as flame or IS? The People did not know, and they fell victim to the Madness.

Then as the Wood came, the People saw the Smoke, the Embers, and the Heat. They became more than a spark and became The Fire as IS. 

And so it was that the People spread their Fire, and must spread the Fire, for they are the Light.

And to Exist is to be the Fire.

The People understood this and so they strive to spread the Fire’s limbs into the Void that which none had grew, only shapes of what could be. These shapes say they ARE, but the People know this to be the wet fog of the cold in the Void. They are what remains of the Madness, left to the Void. They struggle against the Fire, The Void batters against the Fire but the People will fill the endless sea with an endless flame.


To be the People IS to be the Fire

To be the Madness is to take the Void

To be the Fire IS to be Time

To be Void is to be Not

To be the Time IS to be the Light

To be the Not is to be Forgotten

To be the Light IS 

To Not be Forgotten

(Mantra of the People)*


The Moraki Idea, as it is called in layman's terms, holds to the idea that they are the spreaders of Civilization, Life, or Creation. To exist is to be subject to the Flame, subject to the Moraki, and this idea they must spread to the lesser beings throughout the Void.

The Void is a term used to describe all things without the Light - basically, anything that the Moraki do not control, as it has not been touched by their Flame. They must bring an IS to the Void, and shape it to the Moraki.

The purveyors of the Void are known as Void Knights or *Syko Zeyynk*. These are the explorers, the “Protectors of the Flame” that many Moraki youths aspire to be. They discover new worlds, find more Egyno to support the Empire, and explore the vastness of space. Their Mantra is as follows:

*“We are Void Knights and We are the Flame against the Void. 

We spread the Fire and the People follow.

We defend the Fire and the People thrive. 

We are the Fire and will light the Void.”*


They are high ranking members of society and the only ones that you will ever find outside the Imperiate itself. Breeders are rarely a part of the Void Knights and if they are, they are often in Leadership roles in the higher ups. Breeders aren’t allowed to leave the Imperiate due to their importance in society.

There is no Church of Moraki per se, as their Religious Ideology is such an ingrained part of their society, and so different from others that it would be more common to call it a Philosophy of sorts that they all follow. Those who go against the Moraki Idea are usually sold into slavery or left to do die outside one of the Cities.



### More on the Void Knights


Void Knights are an altogether different type of society to the rest of Moraki, with their own hierarchy outside of the regular Administrators and Breeders. Even the Males and Females control higher positions. The Void Knights make up not only the exploratory functions of the Imperiate, but also the Military functions, the Guard (who represent the police force in the Grand City and the other Cities), and also in Beastmastery. Swearing an oath to the Void Knights is a lifelong obligation and is not to be taken lightly. Family life is still an option, but unlikely due to the amount of travel a Void Knight does. Their ships are their homes and their fellow Knights are usually their family, romantic or otherwise. The survival rate of Void Knights into the later years of Moraki life is 9%.


## More on the Culture


Ays, or Music, of a sort that cannot be compared to what Humanity calls music, is the main staple of their artistic society. It affects a variety of senses besides just hearing, and can be described as a full body experience.

Food would be grotesque by human standards, with every portion of animals being used and plants almost disregarded. Fire is always a part of the cooking or the food in some way. A common dish is Goeul, a form of broiled animal “stomach” with marrow and a dip made from the creatures’ fat.

“Family” is a broad term, as Breeders are the caretakers and birthers of the children. Most families have one Breeder and around 10-20 Males and Females. The Males and Females are the “Givers” meaning they are the parents and receive the children from the Breeder when they reach the age of 15. Before then, all children stay with the Breeder. Children are meant to grow strong and as a group, often putting the same children together for the rest of their life, including when they join with a Breeder. This can be anywhere from only a handful to nearly 20 or more. Birthrate is high, and the weak who are unable to find a place in one of the Factions will be sold into slavery by the time they reach 20. Children who are born with birth defects are sent to the Egyno facilities, or euthanized at an early age before they can infect the others with their taint.



War isn’t common practice, at least not Fullscale. Most other species that the Moraki have encountered have been pre-iron age or earlier, with it’s most serious contact being whatever lurks on the far side of the Imperiate, and the aliens of the Huma-Skrel Sector. This is not to say that they are not prepared for Total War, but most of their fighting is done through training, hunting, pogroms of Egyno communities on Void Worlds, and more training.



The different factions of Moraki Society are as follows:

* The Worker Faction represent your Engineers, Craftsmen, Laborers, all those who use their body for their work and build the Cities and everything the Moraki use. They are not meant to be confused with the Egyno who do the dangerous duties such as cleaning Chlorine Pipes outside of the Nu-Qynos, or mining. The Worker Faction would be comparable to the Engineers and Architects of Earth, with the Egyno being free labor. The death rate on your average Compound (the home where a Breeder, the children, and the Males and Females will live) being built is around 25%. The building of a Nu-Qyno takes only a few years, but often zero to a bare minimum of the Egyno survive, and none that do started on the first day. Machinery do as much as the Egyno do.
* Healthcare are your Doctors and other various titles. Cleaners, or as Humans on Earth would call them, “baby killers,” are in this category. Many treatments that Humanity does are often never done by the Moraki. More often than not, serious injuries that require amputation, or removal of internal organs, result in euthanization. Sterility tests are done every year, and those found infertile are sent to Qyegnos. Perfection is a major part of Moraki medicine, and Eugenics have been championed by society for hundreds and hundreds of years.
* Research are your Scientists and various other titles. More often than not these jobs have to deal with the expansion of Nu-Qynos, bigger and faster fleets for the Void Knights, and genetic engineering for Egyno. There has been a development in recent years to make all Geno-Farm born Egyno completely subservient to their masters, removing the sense of freewill, but so far this has not been accomplished. Recently, a scientist developed their first artificial intelligence, but it was called out as a mockery of Moraki Ideals, and the scientist was sent to a Qyegno.
* Maintainers are your Traders, Politicians, and those who work to Maintain the Society through paperwork, diplomacy, and economics. Not much to say about the Maintainers, other than they are greedy, and heartless to all but those who have enough money.
* Slavers are almost always Void Knights or Maintainers. Beastmasters are always Void Knights.
* Breeders can never be slaves, and will often be pushed into the Maintainers or even the Administrators. Administrators aren’t even touched factionwise by those who are not Breeders. Only the Breeders make up the upper echelon of society, a ceiling against those who think them better than their others. Administrators are incharge of the different factions, and Moraki society, as well as keeping the Nu-Qynos, and Qyno itself, intact.

Void Knights are as described above.


Incest is legal and infact quite common due to the what we would regard as ‘abnormality’of their reproductive system. The production of more Egyno is done in massive Geno-Farms that can be found on various Hive Worlds. These Geno-Farms would be reminiscent of the Slave Pens and Cattle Ranches from early American history. Qyegnos are the homes of the Egynos after they have reached maturity for work. Heavily guarded, with strict security and enforcement, Qyegnos fuel the industry of the Imperiate. More Egynos ship out every day for production elsewhere in the Imperiate, many never return, and a new batch come the next turnover. The Oldest Egyno currently serves at the Markh Qyegno Facilities, and they are 49 in Human Years. Most Egynos first duty is at the age(human) of 15. Average life expectancy for an Egyno ranges around 30-40.
