Dionaea, Diona for singular, are sentient plant-like (note, not actually
plants) creatures that have a three stage life process: seed, nymph, and
'adult'. Seeds grow into diona nymphs, which eventually evolve into
adults. They are not a race meant for science experimentation, and
killing one is considered to be murder.

-   Take note that a diona nymph is not legally recognized as a person,
    unlike the adults. Killing one is not to be regarded as murder.
    Random killings will violate OOC server rules.
-   In order to apply to join in as an adult diona, please visit the
    forums and make a whitelist application:
    <http://baystation12.net/forums/view/alien-species.38/>

Observers may set a preference to join in as a diona nymph if one is
created, but this requires whitelisting. At the moment, the join proc is
bugged and will allow unwhitelisted people to join.

In a nutshell
-------------

-   Nymph: puppy-like creatures with the reaction speed of a concussed
    mollusk. Never more intelligent than a young child, usually hovering
    around the 'particularly bright dog' mark.
-   Adult: slow, both in thought and in action. No self-preservation
    instinct.
-   Both states are curious to learn about anything they can.
-   Incapable of feeling pain, largely emotionless, and very slow to
    react to threats.
-   Frequently incapable of understanding human cultural suggestions
    like handshakes or sleeping.
-   Communal intelligence - refer to themselves as 'we' unless trained
    to use 'I' by exposure to other sapients.
-   If born from station seeds, cannot reproduce as a gestalt.

Mechanics
---------

-   Use *,q* and *,w* To talk in the Dionaea language. ,q is local and
    ,w is global.
-   Dionaea must be in lit areas to survive. Darkness will cause damage
    and eventually death. However, light increases nutrition and
    nutrition is consumed to heal brute and toxins damage.
-   Radiation will also increase Diona nutrition without ill effects.
-   Diona nymphs are grown in hydroponics trays in botany.
-   A Diona nymph gains evolution points by being in direct light. They
    are not able to learn how to speak most languages until they evolve
    into full grown Diona. They are generally non-hostile and do not
    need blood to survive, despite what the space tabloids say.

Synopsis
--------

The dionaea are a group of omnivorous, slow-metabolism plantlike
organisms that are in fact clusters of individual, smaller organisms.
They exhibit a high degree of structural flexibility, and come in a wide
variety of shapes and colours.

An adolescent diona, known as a diona nymph, will usually wander around
the station to attempt to soak up as much information as possible.
Nymphs learn by observing their environment, which has led some crew
members to believe them to be pests and annoyances with their constant
staring and chirping.

Dionaea have no planets, government, or society. The diona reproductive
cycle eventually results in the humanoid diona, in their 'seed' or
'samen' state, making a pilgrimage of sorts to a communally agreed-upon
site - either a gas giant or a star, depending on the 'strain' of the
individuals. Once there, they interlink their bodies and enter an orbit
around the celestial body, fusing and merging into a fledgeling
superorganism that will eventually grow to the size of a space station.
The gestalt feeds on the gasses and emissions of the star or planet,
converting them into myriad useful forms or storing them in sacs and
bladders for buoyancy in atmosphere, or in recent years, for trade with
interested bodies.

Prior to this transformation, the dionaea spread their samen throughout
the galaxy. They do so by imitating the forms and modes of speech of the
races that they encounter, picking facts and thoughts from minds and
using them to shape ambassadors. The trade of energy and rare matter
from stars and gas giants is used to facilitate the dispersal of the
seeds throughout cultures, and the seeds will gather as much information
as they can, developing into wildly unique and interesting individuals
to bring as much variation as possible to the gestalt when they merge.
They will also collect scientific information on bioengineering,
genetics, chemistry and biological science in order to improve their
gestalt state and therefore the seeds that will eventually be produced.

Contact
-------

Roughly 300 years prior to the present day, Skrellian exploratory craft
came across the system known to human astronomers as Epsilon Ursae
Minoris during routine scouting patrols. They dutifully flagged it for
review, as it was a ternary system with a triad of stars, and went on
their way, noting a few strange readings from the upper photosphere of
the system's core bodies.

Only when the mining fleets of a Skrell industrial consortium arrived in
2294 did the readings become explained. A thick belt of drifting matter
was slung in a wide arc around the three central stars, held in place by
the machinations of ancient energy-patterning machines. The ruins were
ancient and devoid of anything remarkable, and the patterning node
technology both inefficient, aesthetically ugly, -dangerously-
radioactive and a decade behind modern tech.

Far more interesting to the surveyors were the odd readings from the
photospheres. Investigations stalled when attempting to delve into the
immense heat and hard radiation rising from the stars, but eventually an
odd comms contact was made. Preliminary analysis of the data had the
scientists in fits of excitement. It seemed that the stars were
sentient. Secondary analysis was less exciting but slightly more
bizarre: something in the upper photosphere, not the sun itself, was
very pleased to meet the surveyor ships.

Over the next several decades, science vessels were brought in and the
strange electromagnetic language of the creatures that came to be called
Dionaea was painstakingly decrypted. The scientists learned that the
strange, immense structures were conglomerates of plantlike creatures,
buoyed on rare and unstable gasses and fuelled by hard radiation,
asteroid impacts and a kind of complex internal fusion.

Eventually - over several years, due to the slow speed of thought of the
Dionaea gestalts - an agreement was reached. The scientists would take
from the Dionaea several samples and seeds, and sow them in other
systems that the Dionaea could not reach. In exchange, the gestalts
would allow the surveyors and miners to establish habitation modules on
and in the bodies of the gestalts, allowing them to refine and export
the rare gasses and elements only available to creatures living in the
bosom of a star.

Relationships with Other Species
--------------------------------

Dionaea are for the most part entirely peaceful and compatible with all
know interstellar cultures. Their preferred habitat is completely
uninhabitable, being in the upper reaches of a hellish inferno, and
since they have little to no use for money and a fondness for
interaction with other intelligent races, they serve as excellent
emergency berths for ships lost in unfriendly and underpopulated space.

The Vox primalis and armalis treat them with an almost superstitious
respect and awe, likely due to their similarity to the apex.

NT maintains a good working relationship with the gestalts, exchanging
star maps, planetary settlement rights and bluespace comms and FTL
engines for various services, and many of the younger Diona have
actually formed their bodies around starship components and hab modules
to enable them to journey across all manner of inhabited systems.

The Skrell and the Dionaea have several scientific and exploratory
contracts, and at least one Diona gestalt has converted itself to a
simulacrum of the Skrell homeworld, been fitted with FTL engines, and
hosted explorer parties as they warble across the cosmos.

The Unathi are for the most part uninvolved with the Dionaea due to
their relative lack of space travel, but some adherents of various
reforestation religions on Moghes consider the creatures as proof that
if the heart of a sodding SUN can support life, the sand wastes are
certainly up for it.

The Tajara have no documented contact with the Dionaea.

Language
--------

While smaller Dionaea are capable of vocalizing languages from all
manner of other races, thanks to their fluid form, they tend to do so in
a monotone or as a series of heavy bass rumbles or grinds. They come
across as very slow and not very smart in Siik'tajr due to the relative
slowness of their 'ear' and 'tail' growths, but communicate very well in
Sinta'unathi. They cannot speak Skrellian at all due to the pitch
variations required.

Their own language, colloquially called Rootsong, is based predominantly
on the emission of radio and heat waves and as such is very very
difficult to speak without several hundred kilograms of specialized
machinery. Sadly, a diona nymph can not learn the language until they've
fully grown into the adult stage. There are two versions of this
language, one being localized and the other being more globalized.

Mentality
---------

Dionae are highly curious, intelligent (if slow) and passive. They feel
pain of a sort, though in a very different manner to humans, but are
only able to emulate emotion. An 'adolescent' diona will generally take
on observed traits of the entities around it as a side-effect of the
instinctive information-gathering and hoarding that each diona conducts.

They do not have names as such, and when asked for one by other races
will often supply an excessively long and poetic description of a memory
they consider fundamental to their makeup ex. 'the spatter of starlight
across the face of the iron mountain and the deep note of the
planetsong'. This has been known to make Heads of Personnel need to go
have a lie down when filling out ID cards.

They have no concept of personal or mental space, and those who are new
to human culture tend to be excessively touchy-feely or invasive of
privacy.

Dionaea have nothing resembling government. They speak about the chorus
or song of a group in the same manner that one would talk about teamwork
or membership in a group.

Biology
-------

Dionaea for the most part don't 'breathe' in any sense. They sometimes
intake and expel gasses as a means of discharging waste and assisting in
internal cooling, but they have no dedicated exchange membranes or
respiratory channels. They don't have a central circulatory system
either, instead using capillary action within the segments of their
bodies to move fluids and nutrients around (similar to many plants).
Their nervous system is underdeveloped and decentralized, with the
neural matter of the component dionaea merging into a complex strata of
tissue that can often take up many cubic meters of space. For this
reason, the large a diona becomes, the slower it will think, but the
larger its information processing capacity will become.

Dionaea don't have DNA. Their precise means of storing reproductive
information is unknown to modern science but does not match any
currently known form of cellular life. Dionaea are cell-based, but their
cells are very large (visible to the naked eye), fibrous and lack
distinct nuclei. Every diona is physically and functionally identical to
any other, barring acquired injuries and conditioned behaviors or
attitudes.

Skrell research has sketched a rough picture of how the diona clusters
function. Much like all earth life, dionaea maintain complex systems of
internal flora and fauna. The gestalts are host to virus-like symbiotes
that take complex molecules apart into their components and recombine
them into useful forms. Over time, these strains have diverged and
mutated, serving the dionaea gestalts as a means for disassembling and
manipulating genetic material within the depths of the mass. The
tremendous distributed processing power of a large gestalt combined with
a means of controlling these strains allows for the examination and
archival of the material, which the dionaea find quite interesting.

The gestalts themselves maintain a state analogous to the diploid state
of cell development. They are reproductively viable at this time,
spawning new nymphs and maintaining their own mass by synthesizing more
growth and food. Nymphs are analogous to haploid cells, only becoming
viable for growth when merged with other dionaea. Station-grown nymphs
are distinct from this (reproductively viable due to a single nymph) due
to extensive conditioning developed by Skrell scientists and applied to
the 'seed' nodules by volunteering gestalts. For this reason, such
wandering dionaea tend not to form single gestalts, preferring to merge
with other masses from other spawning sites to maintain 'genetic'
viability. All gestalts will normally contain at least one member from a
mature gestalt as a means of transferring the molecule-parsing viruses
into the new mass.

A mature gestalt is structured in several layers. The topmost and
thinnest is for the most part ridged and finned for heat dissipation and
signalling via Rootspeak. Below this is a layer of 'flesh' and cavities
in which nymphs move and thrive, as well as gas and matter storage
analogous to fat in animals. The neural strata and nutrient capillaries
are spread throughout this layer and several dedicated layers below it.
Between the neural strata and the outer husk lies a layer of cavities
and tissue responsible for maintaining the radiation-harvesting blisters
dotting the diona underside. The blisters are iridescent meter-wide
bubbles of layered crystalline material that absorb several wide
varieties of radiation for use in photosynthesis. The layer surrounding
them is a combination of dead, hard diona-flesh, harvested rock, and
synthesised 'filler' intended to absorb heat and hold the gestalt
together.

While the only dionaea contacted so far have existed in the upper
atmosphere of gas planets and the photosphere of stars, the gestalts
have made oblique references to 'deep dwellers' that live within the
surface of the stars themselves. Such a state makes them impossible to
contact with conventional transmissions, and no pattern or encoding has
been detected in the emissions from the system; it is unclear if the
gestalts still exist or if they ever existed at all.
