# The Unathi

The Unathi (Ew-nath-ee) are a race of tall, reptilian humanoids that possess both crocodile-like and serpent-like features. Their scales are hard and plate-like, save for the softer ones that line the inside of their legs, armpits, and groin. Originating from the planet of [Moghes](https://baystation12.net/lore/Moghes), the Unathi live in an extremely sexist society, with women being considered property.

## An Overview

**Naming**

Unathi name themselves in manners that are heavy on I's and O's and S's, along with very harsh K's and G's. Unless introductions have been made, using an Unathi's first name is not recommended.

Not only that, but how they name is strange. The first name of an Unathi is usually their family name, while the last name is a clan name. This means that Dreekius Gnarrssis is a member of the Gnarrssis Clan, but his family is the name Dreekius. No two family names are the same, but members in a family will often end up with the same names, especially fathers and sons. Daughters keep the name of their family. Once an Unathi reaches adulthood, they may take their own name or keep their family name.

*Gios Insthys is a member of the Insthys Clan, but his father comes from a line of Gios. Once Gios became a full-grown, he took the name Garr Insthys.*

**Biology**

Unathi are a race of tall, reptilian humanoids that possess both crocodile-like and serpent-like features. Their scales are hard and plate-like, save for the softer ones that line the inside of their legs, armpits, and groin.

Males stand six to seven feet tall, while females are about a half of a foot shorter on average. Females also tend to possess rounder snouts than their male counterparts. Both stand on plantigrade legs with clawed feet that make wearing standard shoes painful.

The life expectancy of a Moghes Unathi who has decent living conditions is about 70 years. Those with more advanced medical care outside of Moghes often live longer.

As a cold-blooded species, they suffer fatigue and even short comas when exposed to extremely low temperatures. Their hearts have two valves that are spread across their chest, which makes it sound as if they have two heartbeats at once. Unlike humans, their ribs are in armor-like plates that interlock under their chest, protecting their vital organs expertly.

They also have very long tongues, which may stretch up to a foot and a half long, forked just like a serpent's. In much the same manner as snakes, Unathi can sample the air around them using their tongue. Unathi tongues are usually black, extremely long, and very resilient to physical harm.

Since they are carnivorous species, their diet mostly consists of meat, though they do have a tolerance to plants and fruits. However, they do not get any nutrition from plants, so they are mostly used as garnish or decoration. Because they lack a second palate, Unathi cannot breathe while they are eating.

The reproductive system of a Unathi is very similar to that of Earth reptiles. Females lay eggs, with the average clutch being somewhere between one and three. They have a six month gestation period, after which they are laid in a humid, warm area. After two to three weeks, the fetus is fully developed and hatches from the egg, ready to start the cycle anew.

**Behaviour**

Irritation or heightened emotion is expressed by thumping the tail against the ground. Verbal exclamations are also common, as are short barks, rattling of the throat, or 'chuffing' (forceful exhalations of air from low in the throat). Anxious or worried Unathi might sway (similar to snakes), rattle the heavy scaling on their neck, hiss, or sample air more often than necessary. When cold, a Unathi will usually bristle their scales in a manner analogous to human goosebumps. Overheated Unathi become sluggish and drowsy.

It is a social faux-pass to use a Unathi's first name, to touch their tail, or to touch them at all before introductions are undertaken. When speaking to superiors, it is considered formal and respectful to refer to them by the extended name of their command. A clan leader would be referred to by the name of their clan, a squad leader by the name of their squad.

Intimate gestures between Unathi include twining necks, twining tails, and touching foreheads/muzzles. Hugging is usually considered something done by children, avoided by adults. In moments of privacy, when speaking to a very intimate other, a Unathi might refer to them by their own name.

Baring the throat is the single most meaningful expression of trust in a lover or superior, often used as shows of extreme trust, compassion or admittance of shame, and within honourable contexts, clawing or biting the exposed throat is perfectly allowed.

Female Unathi are treated as valuable property by males. For more information see Unathi Culture.

**Diet**

Unathi dishes are mostly, or all made up of meat, eggs, and fish, as they are a carnivorous species. Vegetables in meals are often just for decoration or flavor, but by no means ever make up the majority of the dish. Desert flowers may also be placed on the plate to make it seem well presented, and are also edible. The tools Unathi use to eat are very unorthodox to humans. Important meals like dinner and breakfast are meant to be consumed while surrounded by family, and as such there are no designated utensils. Food will be cut and picked up in strips or portions with their claws, or even daggers that some often carry around.

____

## The People of Moghes

Unathi are a species deeply rooted in family and tradition. Settlements are made up of many clans with an average being somewhere around five and seven at a time to thriving capitols that protect (for a tribute) the other settlements around it. They are part of a large trade network and even have space ports for foreign ships to dock at and unload their goods.

### A Short History

Moghes was once a massive jungle of a world, with the poles and mountain ranges being the coldest places to find on the strange world. The Precursors were a different people to the Unathi of today, and were a far more aggressive species than the Unathi of today, which is surprising with how aggressive the Unathi themselves are. The Precursors had the technological level of mid-21st Century Earth before the near total extinction of life on the planet.

Cities were massive hubs, looking like the favels of Rio de Janeiro in the 21st century, with the functionality of a city armed to the teeth. Due to the warring of the different states, nuclear warheads launched across the world and knocked the world back a peg or seven.

Irradiation and evolution over hundreds and hundreds of years lead to the present day Unathi, a traditional, aggressive, reptilian people of a dying world. However, this crippled their technology and left then with a harsh environment with little population, radiation, and lack of clean water and food. This paved the way for the current Unathi lifestyle.

Most general history assumes that the precursors were not Unathi, but many have started coming to the false idea that they were.


### The Unathi Way of Life

Their homes are constructed out of sturdy sandstone and most, if not all, have special chambers that are called 'Sun Gardens'. They act much like living rooms do for humans; they are the face of the home. Guests will most often visit this room first, and if it is poorly kept or decorated, it reflets badly on the clan. Common decorations include wall trophies, carvings in the wall consisting of symbols or hieroglyphs detailing the clan's history (which may instead be supplemented by a mural), colorful rocks, and exotic or good-looking common plants. Wealthier homes will also have humid baths to enjoy, although most settlements have public, communal baths for all to enjoy.

Unathi of the heartland live by a simple mindset; If it isn't broke, don't try and fix it. Things are separated by need and want, with the former taking priority. In higher castes or wealthier clans, the gap is, of course, less intense. Women are treated as they are for the exact same reasons. They are property, but valuable property. They're the means to advance a clan's bloodline and also to mind every day necessities and needs when the expendable males are too busy. Females are often assigned to a male that is responsible for them (such as their father, or husband, or brother in the even both of the previous men are dead or away). Their caretaker will also be expected to bear the shame and punishment for the female if they error. Touching another male's female, even if it's consensual is bad without permission or transferred ownership. Not only with the female's caretaker call for a bane (a disagreement fight) as soon as possible, but the others in their clan and settlement will look very poorly on them.

Unathi society in the heartland is determined by a rigid caste system, which determines their social standing. Those who serve in the military are generally considered to be above the simple, working class - or peons, as they're called. Council members, like elders and village leaders, have authority over both previous castes, with warlords (the leader of a large settlement) above them and overlords (the leader of a capital) at the very top.

Water is one of the most favored currencies in Unathi society, as they lack any kind of real paper money or treasury system. Their major way of buying and selling involves bartering, though forms of currency differ regionally.

The matriarchs of each clan take up the weaving of history skeins or history webs in their lodgings. Patterns of knots spun from grasses and flax grown in the area owned by the clan, detailing the events of the year. Destroying or otherwise damaging the skein of a clan's matriarch is analogous to attempting genocide of that clan, as it is the only recorded history they have.

Pets are not entirely unheard of in Unathi society, but they are based upon their worth as an assistant to their owner rather than a simple companion. Threshbeasts are common and easily tamed if the owner is responsible and smart. Putting down pets is much easier to Unathi simply because they are not fuzzy, adorable friends, but rather work beasts that would have their lives cut short the moment they bite someone they weren't ordered to.

Relationships for Unathi are, suffice to say, not one of equality, but responsiblity. Males who request and admit attraction to a female will go to the male who is responsible for their well-being (Father, brother, or the head of their clan) and tell them this. Boasting or offering tributes to the female's caretaker may make this process go more smoothly. To ignore this ritual and directly try to claim said female would greatly upset her caretaker, and not only will their clan look poorly on them for attempting so, but they will likely be challenged to a bane.

Because the Unathi are a species with such a focus on clan, same-sex relationships are frowned upon. Two males or females who wish to be wed will usually find themselves scorned. That being said, homosexual experimenting or casual relationships are an entirely different story. Members of the political caste may offer certain types of favors during under-the-table deals (or wife/daughter borrowing depending on their decision), and soldiers in the military caste often do it to unwind, celebrate, or bond together as comrades.

In the event that a Unathi becomes mortally ill, or finds themselves lacking the pride or honor to continue to live, or simply become tired of their existence undergo a ritualistic suicide and take the name of 'Guwani' (which is translated to Gladiator/Galdium). They will sell all of their possessions to travel and survive in the harsh Moghes deserts. The only things they keep are their weapons which they use to fight animals or other Unathi so that they may die in honorable combat. In the event that two of these Guwandi meet, they will first draw their weapons and adopt a passive stance, which is followed by them telling each other their stories in turn, as well as the reasons behind their choice of adopting the mantle of 'Guwandi' and how they wish their remains to be dealt with. When both sides understand the other, combat will begin with a mutual wish of luck that the more worthy of death lose with pride. The winner of the battle is responsible for taking care of the corpse in the way they were instructed to.

Renouncing the deathseeking life of Guwandi isn't easy. Some may wish to return after having been granted a second outlook, or hope, after they had spent time wandering and risking their life. Their clan may see their decision as cowardly and refuse to accept them, or be overjoyed they had learned a lesson in their time.

The different region of Moghes are split between the temperate, tropical poles, the savannahs, the salt swamps near the oceans, and the diamond peaks. All of them have their own unique dialect and accent to the Unathi tongue, but branch off of the same base language. Cultures also tend to vary much between the regions. Precursor ruins located at the poles consist of military bases and mass-driver faclities for unaided surface to air space take-off. Unathis that have settled there are either one of those who follows the Hand of the Vine, or the Fruitful Lights. The latter is made up of clans that have taken engineering as a family trade. Some follow the faith of the Precusors in secret, or some clans openly do. These Unathi may compete with their brethren in battles using battle rigs or jury-rigged exosuits to decide who gets to study the technology left behind and run the mass-drivers. While the other regions judge the Poles with suspicion or oddness, they have learned to coexist with them simply because they hold a monopoly on interplanetary trading.

Unathi who follow the Hand of the Vine in the polar region tolerate the engineering clans tending to and studying the fauna, in hopes of learning ways to bring it to the rest of Moghes. Combat for them is often rare and short, usually taking place on patches of unfertile land so that the blessed soil is not tainted by the blood of their enemies. If a feud must end in bloodshed, these Unathi will generally avoid trying to make lethal blows, preferring to instead disable their opponents and leave them alive. These fights are usually sparked by inter-clan disagreements.

The Unathi of the Poles are the most advanced of the planet due to their access to off-world trade and tech. The city-states in these regions are often a strange mixture between Unathi culture and off-world tech. They are open, traders mostly, and very largely against the more isolationist Unathi on Moghes, such as the Diamond Peak Clans. 

Those who settle in the Deserts and the Savannahs are the more common of Unathi. Orginally settled by exiles who moved south to carve their own way of life, the few lakes and some of the land are highly irradiated in some parts due to the nuclear infighting that destroyed Precursor culture, and the deep jungle crags are often filled with the decomposing bodies of travellers. Great metal monuments from days of old, and dunes entirely made of glass fill the land as well. Funnily enough, the ruins there consist of underground shelters to protect from bombardment. Clans and settlements will make homes of these shelters, digging for underground springs and using water purifiers. However, life in the region is not so easy for all. The majority of Unathi have a hard time. Most clans are large to the point of being their own tribe, very devoted to their worship of the ancestors as well as the Grand Strategem. They are also very territorial. Shelter and land rights are decided by vicious combat in designated grounds that are dangeruosly irraidated for the express purpose of testing the combatant's skills, experince and endurance. While those of the equator do trade with any caravan brave enough to stand the heat, sandstorms and radiation, it is often viewed as more trouble than it's worth. Most caravans do not even brave the journey to the south, what with the local legends floating about. Stories of Unathi who had been warped by the radiation into hulking, cannbialistic boogeymen. Monsters who were fond of dragging travelers and children who stay out and alone too late into the darkness so that they may gorge them on the scraps of their kills until they're one of them.

The Salt-Swamp Unathi are often a less traditional group, and very small in number due to the toxic area. With these traditions, strangely enough, is an openness to outsiders. They welcome caravans greatly, but many do not come due to the hostile region. There is often conflict between the Desert Clans and the Salt Swamp Clans over territory and water supply. It is easy to tell a Salt-Swamp Clansmen by the circular tattoos they keep along their arms. 

The Diamond Peak Clans are very isolationist, and completely anti-outsiders. They have painted faces, with brands on their scales to show where they come from. With the rich diamond mountains, and the reserves of phoron beneath the ground come many offworlders looking to make a quick buck, but they are often killed by the clans in pogroms or raids. Other Unathi don't often go the mountains besides those looking to trade. There's a legend that a great basin of water lies deep in the mountains and that's how the Diamond Peak Clans are so strong.

### What They Wear and Use

Unathi clothing is mostly loose-fitting garments, much like a Greek peplos. Footwear is usually uncommon, but many individuals choose to wear sandals when possible. Clothing is woven out of though fiber-bearing 'Velo' and other small, scrubby plants. Dyes are made of crushed minerals, clay, plant matter, or bone. Darker hues are less common, as they absorb light, and as such lighter and cooler colors are preferred, such as white. Work clothing usually lacks a top, and instead is a simple, tough skirt designed for mobility. Higher caste's clothing have strung beads of a gorgeous, showy color, and add more variety to the Velo-cloth's color, as well as provocative or sharp gaps in their skirts or tops. Those that live in the Mountains or the Swamps often wear tighter clothing, usually made from a sort of leather. This is for ease of travel through the dangerous regions. 

Armor is is generally more bulky than what humans currently have, but is not fully covering. It's a mix of cloth and heavy plates covering vital areas, offering sturdy protection from at least one or two hits with some of the strongest light-based weapons available to Unathi. The shells from the exo-skeletons of certain animals is also often used. These sets of armor may also be decorated to reflect one's caste and clan. Symbols, clan colors, kill markers, or small trophies are common.

Unathi melee weapons may seem very simple compared to human technology, but rest assured, they are very, very deadly, especially in the hands of a skilled swordsman. Some examples include vibroswords, which are blades that, when struck, vibrate extremely fast. This movement is subtle enough so that it's not noticable to the naked eye, but it can cleave straight through limbs, easily capable of severing a head or another appendage with one well-placed strikes. Infantry may also be equipped with energy axes. The blade is made of a very easy-to-heat metal with a high melting point, as well as a battery at the base of the staff that powers it. The head of the weapon is weighted and it is also intended to cleave off limbs, or at the very least inflict severe burns. Wounds from this type of weapon do not bleed, however, as the extreme heat cauterizes the wound before any such trauma can occur. This type of energy technology is also available in sword and halberd varieties.

Another unique weapon design Unathi possess are pneumatic weapons, like hammers and maces. These weapons have a compressed air system, and both sides of the hammer's head are movable, which means when one side strikes, the other slams down with a brutal amount of compressed force onto the other to give the blow more power. This simple yet lethal system has earned them the name 'power hammers/maces'. Normal rules of mace swinging still apply, but the momentum and weight don't do all the work any longer.

Ranged weaponry is generally not Unathi specific. It is not used in honorable combat and is usually seen in the hands of those who are desperate or disgruntled, or even with the Unathi who live in the North. These types of weapons are imported from cities with space ports where people can buy and trade firearms. Laser weaponry is generally preferred, as the harsh sands of Moghes tend to wear down and break the moving parts of ballistic weapons. Crossbows and longbows made from sinew or dried entrails are tools used in hunting, and rarely you may find some scavenged from Precursor ruins that utilize radiation bolts. However, these types of ancient weapons are hard to procure, and are usually seen in the hands of those in higher castes. Should these rare bows be found in the hands of a outcast, someone will certainly be asking uncomfortable questions as to how they got their hands on such a thing.

### Technology

Though they are not as advanced as the other known races, the technology they do have is by no means sub-par. Unathi technicians know how to work with wiring, basic keypad coding, weapon development and maintenance, as well as armor repair, the production of water wells and purifiers, mining equipment and transport. However, artificial intelligence, advanced computers, synthesizers and other very advanced technology is beyond them, since it is entirely unneeded. Most, if not all of their technology comes from things carefully studied and reverse engineered from the many Precursors ruins their dot their homeworld. Disagreements may crop up between high clan leaders who live in the ruins as a privilege, and thus they get to decide who studies it and how they go about it, and the religious sects that worship the Precursors, who care for and cherish the technology.

Unathi space travel is still primitive compared to the other spacegoing species. They lack safe means of having their ships take off, and usually fire them out of extremely large, modified mass drivers to launch them into the atmosphere where their engines kick on and take them into space proper. Landing itself is even more dangerous, as Unathi have not developed a guaranteed way of returning home safely. Most of their space travel is spent drifting, with the precious engine fuel used to steady their course. Upon returning home, their objective is simply to try and land without managing to wreck their ship.

Moghes has almost no universal defense fleet; each capital has their own small force consisting of carrier ships to deal with pirates raiding their supply lines. Due to their concept of honor, ranged space combat is all but impossible for them. Instead, the carrier ships have a specialized bay that carries up to four smaller breacher ships that have the appearance of an oversized torpedo with a sharp, jagged head. These are fired from the bay a safe distance from the aggressor, and are designed to impact the hull and then disperse boarding parties into the enemy ship, taking it from within.

Many Unathi clans take engineering as a family craft, especially those near the poles of the planet, where fleets are launched from. Prior to the standardization of specially-tailored hardsuits, each of these families had their own designs which required Precursor technology. As a result, these suits were very rare. Through either bartering or espionage, NanoTrasen came into possession of several of these unique schematics and joined them together to create a higher-quality suit. Now, they sell them not only to the capitals for their breacher crews, but to exiles and pirates alike.

Archaeology or similar is also a highly sought after career for many Unathi due to the vast Precursor ruins and the lack of understanding of their world. Many go into this field, and often discover new technologies for the world.
### Military

Battles for Unathi vary greatly depending on who is fighting who. The armed forces of most settlements stick to the honor codes regarding melee combat. When in an engagement with other armies, the formation will consist of battle lines. Shieldmen will be in front, and breakers behind and in between to try and overpower the defense of their enemy. Should these lines fall, the ones behind them will attempt to fill in the gaps. Located near the rear of the lines are officers and commanders, as well as the drummers who will convey and scream orders.

Combat also varies depending on the region of the settlements at war. Soldiers who hail from the desert will often break their lines to seek a single kill, whereas those who live in the savannahs will, if at all possible, try to make non-lethal blows or try and make their lethal blows quick and painless. Diamond Peak soldiers often go into a sort of berserk rage during combat and slaughter any in their path, while the Salt Swamp clans often use traps and guerilla tactics to give themselves some sort of advantage over their enemies. Those nearer to the poles do not adhere so much to the melee code many Unathi follow, and have no qualms in using ranged or laser weapons in battles.

Fights with, or between outcasts or refugee groups are fought with a value on survival over killing their enemies. Rather than taking part in lines and formations, these groups fight their battles in a hit and run style, favoring terrain advantages and guerrilla warfare against both other outcasts or refugees, as well as the disciplined settlement militaries.

Unarmed combat styles for Unathi vary by clan and settlement, but most focus on the usage of claws as well as grappling to disable an enemy, headbutting, and an overall goal to expose the neck for biting.

Most battles are fought by simple infantry, as mounted units are something uncommon. When they do show up, they are usually feared by their enemies, unless they have a lot of polearms in their possession. They function like typical human cavalry, using their mount to run into the enemy formation and swipe at heads or necks. They may also come equipped with lances instead, which are used to power through enemy defenses. Animals used as mounts are typically threshbeasts or specifically bred scale-cattle meant to be fast on their legs. However, raising and training these animals takes patience and a few years, which is why the sight of mounted infantry so rare.

### Religion

The religions of Moghes are as equally diverse as it's natives. Much like perceptions of honor, the following of each faith is entirely regional, and none hold many more followers than the other.

Some Unathi, mostly those who live in the savannahs or Poles, follow a faith dubbed the Hand of the Vine. They are semi-nomadic groups who believe that the event which caused the desertification of Moghes was not a tragedy, but an opportunity to shape the world in their image. They are dedicated to the spreading and breeding of all plant life, be it crops, brush, or flowers. Acolytes carry small bags with thousands of seeds, with the most common being a tough vine called 'Velo' that is well-suited to turning sand to soil. Followers like to refer to themselves as 'her hands', due to the belief nature is passive and feminine. As a result, females are treated with more respect, though are still expected to stay back and tend to existing gardens while men search for new horizons. Upon death, they are cremated and spread amongst plants, fertilizing them with their remains.

Another commonly practiced faith is centralized around the worship of the Precursors and their technology. They feel that these beings are of a higher intelligence, and respect them for all that they have done. It is not a religion in the true sense, as they do not feel the Precursors are gods, but rather they simply wish to preserve all that they have done and make sure that their technology, architecture, and scriptures are not lost to history. They revere the ruins and artifacts left behind by the Precursors, and arguments amongst the members of the faith who are higher caste are not uncommon when discussing how to go about researching or handling ancient artifacts. Often the Salt Swamp clans follow the Precursors.

Yet a third faith, one practiced mostly by Unathi who live in the Deserts or in the Diamond Peaks, is the Grand Strategem. In a region where survival and honor is held in high regard, the Strategem teaches that war shouldn't simply be a tool of destruction, but rather a tutor with many lessons to teach the soldiers that survive. The Grand Strategem speaks through victory and defeat, through tactics both solid and flawed. It is a manifestation of war itself, and its followers believe that every conflict has a lesson to be learned. 

The last faith practiced on Moghes is called the Fruitful Lights, and focuses more on the creation of products and goods. They believe that the Precursors created them so that they may create more. Most of the followers of this faith are farmers, craftsmen, engineers and the like. There are no temples, only workshops, and the faith of an individual is judged by the product that he creates. A fisherman who hauls in a greater catch would be considered closer to the Precursors. They share a competition with the Hands of the Vine in the farming industry, and it has gotten to a pont where even espionage has been reported between the two. 'Religious' leaders are those who have mastered a craft, and their acolytes are the ones they are teaching it to. Men generally perform the more labor-based works, with females performing the arts and less physical tasks. The Salt-Swamp clans are often the greatest followers of Fruitful Lights

### Clans

With the strange structure of Unathi society comes to the political, cultural, and uniting interest between the various Unathi: Clans. The Clans of Moghes are the leaders of the planets various city-states, and the main focus of politics on the planet. They shape everything, from the infighting between two different Unathi, to the different cultures and societies of the planet. Unathi that are a part of a clan take that Clan name for their last name, and that is often what they are addressed when they are not on Moghes itself. It is also very common for two Unathi of opposed clans to breakout into violence even when they're off-world. This is a list of various clans from the planet, and where they are from.

* **Gresis Clan:** The Gresis Clan, one of the most powerful in the Diamond Peaks area, is one very centralized around religion. Members of this clan are clearly identified, as they wear symbols of pickaxes being illuminated on their clothes, showing their pride in their work. Starting at the age of around eight, every member works in mining. They do this as they believe the work helps to properly educate their young to truly appreciate the luxuries in life. On top of this, they are followers of the Fruitful Lights religion, believing that every diamond they dig up brings them closer to the Precursors. The area they are in is known to be very richly saturated with diamonds, and they have “lovingly” taken to calling this area, Saris Nirz, considering the land a gift from the Precursors themselves. Because of this, they have been fighting for dominance in the area since they got there centuries ago. They have made vassals of various clans, those who wanted to destroy them, and those that wanted to expand their faith through working. Ver’sik Gresis, the current, and sole leader of the Gresis Clan, has been continuing the traditions that his clan have set. However, as more and more off-worlders come to the Diamond Peaks, mining close to Saris Nirz, the more volatile their relations become. They see the off-worlder mining operations as interferences with the purpose that the Precursors created them for, and because of this, have lead many attacks to drive them out of the area. While not completely stopping it, they have more or less driven off-worlders out of the area they inhabit. They seek to fulfill the purpose they believe they were sent there for, and do not intend to let others stop them in their path.
* **Ulig'vas and Jez'vik Clan:** The Ulig’vas, and Jez’vik clans are individually small, and have always been like that. They are both also practicers of Grand Stratagem. The Ulig’vas are hunters, seeing each prey they kill as a means to better themselves, and learn more about life. The Jez’vik however, are more militant fighters, trying to keep their supplies secure as they transport goods throughout the deserts. Both of their nomadic ways though the deserts have proven that a small reliable group, was better than a larger one. However, both of their relative smallness lead to both of their downfalls, as another clan, Clan Sorize, one vastly bigger than them, vassalized them, and effectively made them their slaves. This went on for decades, and the Sorize’s takings from these clans eventually pushed them over the edge. Ar’resk Ulig’vas and Korem Jez’vik, leaders of their respective clans, joined their clans together to take out their tyrannical leaders. Being successful in their endeavours, and realizing they shared not only a similar background, but religion, the two clans became quick friends. The Ulig’vas helped to Jez’vik keep protected from the fauna, and the Jez’vik help the Ulig’vas trade their goods, and become profitable. Maintaining their own individual beliefs, they travel together, and hunt together, sharing their beliefs and traditions with one another as if they were the same clan. They continue their nomadic practices, and they hunt down the Duneworms, and other fauna native to the deserts that make up Moghes, together, fighting them with made spears, and swords. Because of their new size, and ability to cover larger ground more successfully now, they have been able to make a profit from their hunting. They commonly travel into the Savannahs to trade the excess food for water, and other supplies, and pick up good to transport to other areas. As they travel together, in much happier times, they are ever vigilant to not let the mistakes of the past repeat.
* **Issarik Clan:** The Issarik Clan, has always taught that curiosity, and discovery, was key to survival. With every new advancement, their odds of surviving increased, and without the curiosity to drive discovery, you would die. Such teachings are still ingrained in their beliefs, and their current leader, Koszes Issarik, has kept it that way. The Issarik Clan currently resides in the Northern Pole of Moghes, and has been now for decades after the discoveries of Precursor technology. They are devout worshipers of the Precursor technology, and have been trying to integrate, and recreate the technological artifacts that they acquire. While most other clans in the area would argue with them, they see this as the only way to truly honor the ones that came before them, and advance their own race to the future. They fight those who would seek to hinder their progress, and have established more than a name for themselves because of it.Their engineering skill is known throughout the Northern Pole, and they are usually sought after to repair, and acquire hardsuits, and more advanced weaponry, such as energy swords, or laser rifles. Progress is a means to make their clan, and their race, great, and they seek to get to the point where they can join the stars with the rest of the Galaxy.
* **Zes'lin Clan:** The Zesli’n Clan, are a tribe of boaters in the Derzin Swamps. They were a clan that had lived in the Savanahs, devout followers of the Hand of the Vine movement, but clan leader Issek decided that in pursuit to spread plant life throughout Moghes, they must cleanse the toxicity of the swamps to make it more habitable. Though this goal has not been accomplished fully, Derzin Swamps has over a long period of time, gradually recovered and become more habitable. Even to this day, the clan is firm that their efforts to cleanse the swamps will reward them greatly. Many Hand of the Vine members stop by the Swamps for periods of rest, and recovery from the deserts, and the Zesli’n Clan are more than happy to have them. The current clan leader, Seva, has been trying to lead them further into the swamps, where they before did not dare, to clean a larger area faster. In addition to this, Seva has also been treating the women of his clan more like the males, sending them out to do tasks that the men used to do, before they spent most of their days cleaning. The cleansing will not only help the planet, but it will bring us closer to our faith, and serve a great purpose.
* **Tessereck Clan:** The Tessereck Clan, is an very odd clan, living in the deserts of the equator, in a long lost military bomb shelter, capable of housing nearly three hundred individuals. How they originally came to be, was twenty exiles, male and female, from three different clans, Tesak, Ser’vize, and Recksesua, banding together to survive. They created the name above, as to preserve the memory of those that discarded them. The discovery of this shelter save them from the radiated wastes outside, but it provided them with precursor weapons, and gear to help them survive. Due to their tough circumstances, they have mostly abandoned most traditions, with women being treated as almost equals, although they still have to take care of the cooking/cleaning, and despite being practicers of Grand Stratagem, preferring firearms when dealing with others. Any exile who braves the storms, will be welcomed with open arms, and treated as a member of the clan, as if they were born there. Despite being made of exiles, and wanting places to stay, they have very strict rules, that can get someone exiled yet again, and that exile is much harsher, most not able to leave the equator. Also in honor of the three different clans the original twenty came from, they have three leaders that act like a council for their group. Members of the council are the strongest three Unathi of the clan. The current three leaders, Yexasz, Gi’elz, and Taskhar, are leading the Tessereck clan to new grounds. Before, they were mostly keeping their existence more or less a myth, a secret hope for exiles on Moghes, but now, they are expanding their horizons. Their huge population, amassing an outstanding one hundred eighty seven members, makes it easy to spread out, and do the jobs required, and with their new gear, and their overall versatility, they are moving on to do jobs for clans in need of assistance, and willing to pay. Though discarded, they will show this world the mark that they may leave upon it.
*  **I'lesk Clan:** The I’lesk Clan, is one that has used its fortunate past for others. Desa, a clan leader from centuries ago, found Precursor texts of medical procedures. By studying these texts, the clan became a valued asset for the Southern Pole of Moghes, as some of the best doctors around. Their knowledge of the medical field thanks to these texts has allowed them to gain a significant amount of influence, and power, with many clans not so much as touching them for fear of being denied service in the future. However, this does not come without its caveats, with many clans trying to steal their texts to gain the knowledge for themselves. While no successful attempts have been made, it has caused a serious problem, and caused many conflicts with other clans. Their small size only worsens the matter, but thankfully, a good amount of clans have protected them in the past. Anyone who shares, or tries to share the knowledge outside the clan, is promptly branded, and exiled off-world, in an attempt to keep their status. The current clan leader, Tavex, has already had to exile his eldest son for this reason. He leads the clan with an iron fist, to keep everyone in line, and the knowledge from the texts hidden. Knowledge is power, and none know this better than the I’lesk clan.
*  **Insthyr Clan:** A smaller clan that borders between the most northern parts of the Diamond Peaks and the Poles, the Insthyrs are often a part of conflict due to their location. Their capital is one of the larger ports in the North Pole, and is often common to the trade of weapons, food, and water for the region. Not only that, but with their close vicinity to the Diamond Peaks, raiders from the region often come to the Insthyr in hopes to take their profit. Hard workers, sturdy fighters, and stiff traders, the Insthyrs are commonly known to be staunch followers of the Fruitful Lights, and their leader Gogriss uses the faith as law for his people, if you can even call it faith. They often let clanmembers travel off world in looks for more craft that they can bring back to Moghes. 
* **Nels'thar Clan:** The Nels'thar clan are the dominant power in the southern pole city of S'igek Nels'thar. They poses an ancient mass driver which they have made functional and used to great effect, now having contact with NanoTrasen and several other human organizations, and having gone as far as to make a bid for the Interstellar Assembly. Aliger Nels'thar is the current ruler of the Nels'thar Clan, he is driving his people to gather technology, either that of the precursors or from off world sources. The clan believes in the importance of preserving every bit of precursor technology they can find. The older members of the clan are inclined towards believing the precursors to be an almost demigod race, the great benefactors that make the clan’s fortunes possible. The younger members of the clan are not so sure, they still treat precursor ruins with utmost respect, but do not believe in the precursors as being all important like their forefathers. Despite their attempts at gathering knew technology they are wary of displaying it to their neighbors. Recent tensions in the area has caused them to make a show of their belief in tradition, even if they no longer fully agree with it


### Disease

*Black egg* Syndrom is a genetic defect found in some females in semi-rare cases, and even rarer in males (Though it manifests in it's own form of extreme impotency.). It is a case where laid eggs are both always coming in singles, and the egg itself has a black shell, is 3 times as thick as normal egg shells, and has a tarpy texture instead of a brittle one, in some cultures this may get the female branded and exiled as unfit for breeding, or declared unfit for breeding or other female duties and treated/casted like a male and trusted with their responsibilities, while the eggs are left to die. In others that do understand this condition, it is treatable by two methods, to either pry open the egg shell with sharp implements and effort. (Call Unathi Kreiger and give him a saw and crowbar) or genetic therapy, though the exact line of code that causes this hasn't been found.

### Date and Time

Unathi in general tend not to record global history like humans or Skrell have done. Rather, they focus on clan or territorial history, though most keep a basic calendar system to track days and years. Their seasons are Moto and Jua, which are the equivalent of Terran summer and winter respectively. Temperature changes are mostly felt nearer to the poles, but even in the desert the length of days will still be affected, becoming shorter or longer depending on the season. Each of the two seasons last roughly two hundred days, so when the two hundredth day of Jua passes, it would be considered a new year.

For example, to predict or recall a certain date, an Unathi would phrase it in a way such as *The twelfth day of Jua, five years ago.* or something similar.

Unsurprisingly, the Unathi keep time tracked loosely by sundials. These primitive yet effective clocks are split up into four quarters. Rather than use numeral digits like humans, they instead pay attention to the slant of the shadow. When it is facing zero degrees, then it is considered dawn, a new day, even if it is before sunrise. At ninety, breakfast should be over with and Unathi should be starting to prepare for their work day. One hundred and eighty degrees is midday, most commonly seen as a trading rush-hour or a time for large, friendly lunches. And when the slant is at two hundred and seven degrees, the work day begins to wind down and the Unathi return home to their clans for their evening meals.

____

## Relations
Sol Gov: Open for diplomacy and trade, often at odds due to trouble with TSCs
TSCs: Open for trade, but mostly disliked by the various clans on the planets.
Skrell: Open for diplomacy and trade, and often on agreeable terms.
Tajara: Mostly no contact besides for Interstellar matters.
Sirisai: No contact
IPC Union: No direct contact
Vox: At War, in a way. Often in conflict against them on human or skrell vessels. The few Unathi vessels aren't attacked usually as they almost never leave the home system.
