# Unathi Culture

Unathi live by a simple mindset; If it isn't broke, don't try and fix it. Things are separated by need and want, with the former taking priority. In higher castes or wealthier clans, the gap is, of course, less intense. Women are treated as they are for the exact same reasons. They are property, but valuable property. They're the means to advance a clan's bloodline and also to mind every day necessities and needs when the expendable males are too busy. Females are often assigned to a male that is responsible for them (such as their father, or husband, or brother in the even both of the previous men are dead or away). Their caretaker will also be expected to bear the shame and punishment for the female if they error. Touching another male's female, even if it's consensual is bad without permission or transferred ownership. Not only with the female's caretaker call for a bane (a disagreement fight) as soon as possible, but the others in their clan and settlement will look very poorly on them.

Unathi society is determined by a rigid caste system, which determines their social standing. Those who serve in the military are generally considered to be above the simple, working class - or peons, as they're called. Council members, like elders and village leaders, have authority over both previous castes, with warlords (the leader of a large settlement) above them and overlords (the leader of a capital) at the very top.

Water is one of the most favored currencies in Unathi society, as they lack any kind of real paper money or treasury system. Their major way of buying and selling involves bartering, though forms of currency differ regionally.

Their homes are constructed out of sturdy sandstone and most, if not all, have special chambers that are called 'Sun Gardens'. They act much like living rooms do for humans; they are the face of the home. Guests will most often visit this room first, and if it is poorly kept or decorated, it reflets badly on the clan. Common decorations include wall trophies, carvings in the wall consisting of symbols or hieroglyphs detailing the clan's history (which may instead be supplemented by a mural), colorful rocks, and exotic or good-looking common plants. Wealthier homes will also have humid baths to enjoy, although most settlements have public, communal baths for all to enjoy.

Pets are not entirely unheard of in Unathi society, but they are based upon their worth as an assistant to their owner rather than a simple companion. Threshbeasts are common and easily tamed if the owner is responsible and smart. Putting down pets is much easier to Unathi simply because they are not fuzzy, adorable friends, but rather work beasts that would have their lives cut short the moment they bite someone they weren't ordered to.

Relationships for Unathi are, suffice to say, not one of equality, but responsiblity. Males who request and admit attraction to a female will go to the male who is responsible for their well-being (Father, brother, or the head of their clan) and tell them this. Boasting or offering tributes to the female's caretaker may make this process go more smoothly. To ignore this ritual and directly try to claim said female would greatly upset her caretaker, and not only will their clan look poorly on them for attempting so, but they will likely be challenged to a bane.

Because the Unathi are a species with such a focus on clan, same-sex relationships are frowned upon. Two males or females who wish to be wed will usually find themselves scorned. That being said, homosexual experimenting or casual relationships are an entirely different story. Members of the political caste may offer certain types of favors during under-the-table deals (or wife/daughter borrowing depending on their decision), and soldiers in the military caste often do it to unwind, celebrate, or bond together as comrades.

## Guwandi
In the event that a Unathi becomes mortally ill, or finds themselves lacking the pride or honor to continue to live, or simply become tired of their existence undergo a ritualistic suicide and take the name of 'Guwani' (which is translated to Gladiator/Galdium). They will sell all of their possessions to travel and survive in the harsh Moghes deserts. The only things they keep are their weapons which they use to fight animals or other Unathi so that they may die in honorable combat. In the event that two of these Guwandi meet, they will first draw their weapons and adopt a passive stance, which is followed by them telling each other their stories in turn, as well as the reasons behind their choice of adopting the mantle of 'Guwandi' and how they wish their remains to be dealt with. When both sides understand the other, combat will begin with a mutual wish of luck that the more worthy of death lose with pride. The winner of the battle is responsible for taking care of the corpse in the way they were instructed to.

Renouncing the deathseeking life of Guwandi isn't easy. Some may wish to return after having been granted a second outlook, or hope, after they had spent time wandering and risking their life. Their clan may see their decision as cowardly and refuse to accept them, or be overjoyed they had learned a lesson in their time.

## Regional Differences

The different region of Moghes are split between the temperate, tropical poles, the savannahs, the salt swamps near the oceans, and the diamond peaks. All of them have their own unique dialect and accent to the Unathi tongue, but branch off of the same base language. Cultures also tend to vary much between the regions. Precursor ruins located at the poles consist of military bases and mass-driver faclities for unaided surface to air space take-off. Unathis that have settled there are either one of those who follows the Hand of the Vine, or the Fruitful Lights. The latter is made up of clans that have taken engineering as a family trade. Some follow the faith of the Precusors in secret, or some clans openly do. These Unathi may compete with their brethren in battles using battle rigs or jury-rigged exosuits to decide who gets to study the technology left behind and run the mass-drivers. While the other regions judge the Poles with suspicion or oddness, they have learned to coexist with them simply because they hold a monopoly on interplanetary trading.

Unathi who follow the Hand of the Vines in the polar region tolerate the engineering clans tending to and studying the fauna, in hopes of learning ways to bring it to the rest of Moghes. Combat for them is often rare and short, usually taking place on patches of unfertile land so that the blessed soil is not tainted by the blood of their enemies. If a feud must end in bloodshed, these Unathi will generally avoid trying to make lethal blows, preferring to instead disable their opponents and leave them alive. These fights are usually sparked by inter-clan disagreements. 

Hands of the Vines clans of the Savannahs are a nomadic folk. Their great Ogashes, that live in the plains of Moghes, carry housing for the Clan's Leaders - The Warlords, Overlords, Matriarchs and other high titles. The rest of the clan would carry along with it, gnars and threshbeasts carrying a great caravan through the grasses. Several Ogashes could be with the largest clans. Merchandise of all kinds come with, and great carriers of seed and plant as well, though they do not eat any of it, more to plant and grow the world, or feed their animals. The homes on the backs of the Ogashes would be made of basic wood or tents, not much compared to the great manors in the Polar City States. Many great tents are carried along as well, so that when the clan stops, a whole village can be set up in only a few hours, and taken down even quicker. Bright vibrant colors fill the caravan, and the stench of dried meat and dung as well. Water is always at hand, always. 

The Unathi of the Poles are the most advanced of the planet due to their access to off-world trade and tech. The city-states in these regions are often a strange mixture between Unathi culture and off-world tech. They are open, traders mostly, and very largely against the more isolationist Unathi on Moghes, such as the Diamond Peak Clans. The largest cities of Moghes sit on the Poles, and resemble something like industrial complexes. Great, rusted shipyards and docks, motorcades filled with diesel powered vehicles, great favelas filled with Unathi and giant markets for offworld and Unathi wares. Not only that, but they're giant powder kegs for followers of Markesh and inter-clan warfare. Suicide in the streets, banes at the market, crime. Most of it handled without a police force but instead brutal justice.

Those who settle in the Deserts and the Savannahs are the more common of Unathi. Orginally settled by exiles who moved south to carve their own way of life, the few lakes and some of the land are highly irradiated in some parts due to the nuclear infighting that destroyed Precursor culture, and the deep jungle crags are often filled with the decomposing bodies of travellers. Great metal monuments from days of old, and dunes entirely made of glass fill the land as well. Funnily enough, the ruins there consist of underground shelters to protect from bombardment. Clans and settlements will make homes of these shelters, digging for underground springs and using water purifiers. However, life in the region is not so easy for all. The majority of Unathi have a hard time. Most clans are large to the point of being their own tribe, very devoted to their worship of the ancestors as well as the Grand Strategem. They are also very territorial. Shelter and land rights are decided by vicious combat in designated grounds that are dangeruosly irraidated for the express purpose of testing the combatant's skills, experince and endurance. While those of the equator do trade with any caravan brave enough to stand the heat, sandstorms and radiation, it is often viewed as more trouble than it's worth. Most caravans do not even brave the journey to the south, what with the local legends floating about. Stories of Unathi who had been warped by the radiation into hulking, cannbialistic boogeymen. Monsters who were fond of dragging travelers and children who stay out and alone too late into the darkness so that they may gorge them on the scraps of their kills until they're one of them.

The Salt-Swamp Unathi are often a less traditional group, and very small in number due to the toxic area. With these traditions, strangely enough, is an openness to outsiders. They welcome caravans greatly, but many do not come due to the hostile region. There is often conflict between the Desert Clans and the Salt Swamp Clans over territory and water supply. It is easy to tell a Salt-Swamp Clansmen by the circular tattoos they keep along their arms. 

The Diamond Peak Clans are very isolationist, and completely anti-outsiders. They have painted faces, with brands on their scales to show where they come from. With the rich diamond mountains, and the reserves of phoron beneath the ground come many offworlders looking to make a quick buck, but they are often killed by the clans in pogroms or raids. Other Unathi don't often go the mountains besides those looking to trade. There's a legend that a great basin of water lies deep in the mountains and that's how the Diamond Peak Clans are so strong. 

Another major part of Clans are the Pits. The Pits are a ceremonially part of the Grand Strategem. A way to show honor, strenght, and fortitude, or die to the beasts of Moghes. Every Diamond Peak settlement has their own Pit, a deep, open hole in the ground that is set up like an arena, allowing for the Clansmen to watch from above. The City-States, or Villages, that follow the Strategem sit around the Pit, with it being central to the Clan, and usually just in front of the Overlord/Warchief's Home. Tunnels lead directly to the Pit from Cells for Criminals and Traitors, as well as from the beastiary, and the Challenger Tunnel, which is used by those who seek vengenance through honored combat. The sand, snow or mineral of the Pit is turned a bright with the slaughter that it accumulates over the years, and on the day of Peaced Times in Grand Strategem Faith, it is lit ablaze with a bonfire, and renewed the next day for fresh meat.

## What They Wear and Use

Unathi clothing is mostly loose-fitting garments, much like a Greek peplos. Footwear is usually uncommon, but many individuals choose to wear sandals when possible. Clothing is woven out of though fiber-bearing 'Velo' and other small, scrubby plants. Dyes are made of crushed minerals, clay, plant matter, or bone. Darker hues are less common, as they absorb light, and as such lighter and cooler colors are preferred, such as white. Work clothing usually lacks a top, and instead is a simple, tough skirt designed for mobility. Higher caste's clothing have strung beads of a gorgeous, showy color, and add more variety to the Velo-cloth's color, as well as provocative or sharp gaps in their skirts or tops. Those that live in the Mountains or the Swamps often wear tighter clothing, usually made from a sort of leather. This is for ease of travel through the dangerous regions. 

Armor is is generally more bulky than what humans currently have, but is not fully covering. It's a mix of cloth and heavy plates covering vital areas, offering sturdy protection from at least one or two hits with some of the strongest light-based weapons available to Unathi. The shells from the exo-skeletons of certain animals is also often used. These sets of armor may also be decorated to reflect one's caste and clan. Symbols, clan colors, kill markers, or small trophies are common.

Unathi melee weapons may seem very simple compared to human technology, but rest assured, they are very, very deadly, especially in the hands of a skilled swordsman. Some examples include vibroswords, which are blades that, when struck, vibrate extremely fast. This movement is subtle enough so that it's not noticable to the naked eye, but it can cleave straight through limbs, easily capable of severing a head or another appendage with one well-placed strikes. Infantry may also be equipped with energy axes. The blade is made of a very easy-to-heat metal with a high melting point, as well as a battery at the base of the staff that powers it. The head of the weapon is weighted and it is also intended to cleave off limbs, or at the very least inflict severe burns. Wounds from this type of weapon do not bleed, however, as the extreme heat cauterizes the wound before any such trauma can occur. This type of energy technology is also available in sword and halberd varieties.

Another unique weapon design Unathi possess are pneumatic weapons, like hammers and maces. These weapons have a compressed air system, and both sides of the hammer's head are movable, which means when one side strikes, the other slams down with a brutal amount of compressed force onto the other to give the blow more power. This simple yet lethal system has earned them the name 'power hammers/maces'. Normal rules of mace swinging still apply, but the momentum and weight don't do all the work any longer.

Ranged weaponry is generally not Unathi specific. It is not used in honorable combat and is usually seen in the hands of those who are desperate or disgruntled, or even with the Unathi who live in the North. These types of weapons are imported from cities with space ports where people can buy and trade firearms. Laser weaponry is generally preferred, as the harsh sands of Moghes tend to wear down and break the moving parts of ballistic weapons. Crossbows and longbows made from sinew or dried entrails are tools used in hunting, and rarely you may find some scavenged from Precursor ruins that utilize radiation bolts. However, these types of ancient weapons are hard to procure, and are usually seen in the hands of those in higher castes. Should these rare bows be found in the hands of a outcast, someone will certainly be asking uncomfortable questions as to how they got their hands on such a thing.

## Naming

Unathi name themselves in manners that are heavy on I's and O's and S's, along with very harsh K's and G's. Unless introductions have been made, using an Unathi's first name is not recommended.

Not only that, but how they name is strange. The first name of an Unathi is usually their family name, while the last name is a clan name. This means that Dreekius Gnarrssis is a member of the Gnarrssis Clan, but his family is the name Dreekius. No two family names are the same, but members in a family will often end up with the same names, especially fathers and sons. Daughters keep the name of their family. Once an Unathi reaches adulthood, they may take their own name or keep their family name.

*Gios Insthys is a member of the Insthys Clan, but his father comes from a line of Gios. Once Gios became a full-grown, he took the name Garr Insthys.*


## Diet

Unathi dishes are mostly, or all made up of meat, eggs, and fish, as they are a carnivorous species. Vegetables in meals are often just for decoration or flavor, but by no means ever make up the majority of the dish. Desert flowers may also be placed on the plate to make it seem well presented, and are also edible. The tools Unathi use to eat are very unorthodox to humans. Important meals like dinner and breakfast are meant to be consumed while surrounded by family, and as such there are no designated utensils. Food will be cut and picked up in strips or portions with their claws, or even daggers that some often carry around. Bor is a very popular traditional Unathi meal, and consists of a variety of dried meats, usually covered in a herbal rub, and along with it is a chilled, sweet sauce made from the thick leaves of local plants.

## Date and Time

Unathi in general tend not to record global history like humans or Skrell have done. The matriarchs of each clan take up the weaving of history skeins or history webs in their lodgings. Patterns of knots spun from grasses and flax grown in the area owned by the clan, detailing the events of the year. Destroying or otherwise damaging the skein of a clan's matriarch is analogous to attempting genocide of that clan, as it is the only recorded history they have. Most Unathi keep a basic calendar system to track days and years. Their seasons are Moto and Jua, which are the equivalent of Terran summer and winter respectively. Temperature changes are mostly felt nearer to the poles, but even in the desert the length of days will still be affected, becoming shorter or longer depending on the season. Each of the two seasons last roughly two hundred days, so when the two hundredth day of Jua passes, it would be considered a new year.

For example, to predict or recall a certain date, an Unathi would phrase it in a way such as *The twelfth day of Jua, five years ago.* or something similar.

Unsurprisingly, the Unathi keep time tracked loosely by sundials. These primitive yet effective clocks are split up into four quarters. Rather than use numeral digits like humans, they instead pay attention to the slant of the shadow. When it is facing zero degrees, then it is considered dawn, a new day, even if it is before sunrise. At ninety, breakfast should be over with and Unathi should be starting to prepare for their work day. One hundred and eighty degrees is midday, most commonly seen as a trading rush-hour or a time for large, friendly lunches. And when the slant is at two hundred and seven degrees, the work day begins to wind down and the Unathi return home to their clans for their evening meals.

