# Unathi Military

Battles for Unathi vary greatly depending on who is fighting who. The armed forces of most settlements stick to the honor codes regarding melee combat. When in an engagement with other armies, the formation will consist of battle lines. Shieldmen will be in front, and breakers behind and in between to try and overpower the defense of their enemy. Should these lines fall, the ones behind them will attempt to fill in the gaps. Located near the rear of the lines are officers and commanders, as well as the drummers who will convey and scream orders.

Combat also varies depending on the region of the settlements at war. Soldiers who hail from the desert will often break their lines to seek a single kill, whereas those who live in the savannahs will, if at all possible, try to make non-lethal blows or try and make their lethal blows quick and painless. Diamond Peak soldiers often go into a sort of berserk rage during combat and slaughter any in their path, while the Salt Swamp clans often use traps and guerilla tactics to give themselves some sort of advantage over their enemies. Those nearer to the poles do not adhere so much to the melee code many Unathi follow, and have no qualms in using ranged or laser weapons in battles.

Fights with, or between outcasts or refugee groups are fought with a value on survival over killing their enemies. Rather than taking part in lines and formations, these groups fight their battles in a hit and run style, favoring terrain advantages and guerrilla warfare against both other outcasts or refugees, as well as the disciplined settlement militaries.

Unarmed combat styles for Unathi vary by clan and settlement, but most focus on the usage of claws as well as grappling to disable an enemy, headbutting, and an overall goal to expose the neck for biting.

Most battles are fought by simple infantry, as mounted units are something uncommon. When they do show up, they are usually feared by their enemies, unless they have a lot of polearms in their possession. They function like typical human cavalry, using their mount to run into the enemy formation and swipe at heads or necks. They may also come equipped with lances instead, which are used to power through enemy defenses. Animals used as mounts are typically threshbeasts or specifically bred scale-cattle meant to be fast on their legs. However, raising and training these animals takes patience and a few years, which is why the sight of mounted infantry so rare.
