# Unathi Religion

Some Unathi, mostly those who live in the Savannahs or Poles, follow a faith dubbed the Hand of the Vine. They are semi-nomadic groups who believe that the event which caused the desertification of Moghes was not a tragedy, but an opportunity to shape the world in their image. They are dedicated to the spreading and breeding of all plant life, be it crops, brush, or flowers. Acolytes carry small bags with thousands of seeds, with the most common being a tough vine called 'Velo' that is well-suited to turning sand to soil. Followers like to refer to themselves as 'her hands', due to the belief nature is passive and feminine. As a result, females are treated with more respect, though are still expected to stay back and tend to existing gardens while men search for new horizons. Upon death, they are cremated and spread amongst plants, fertilizing them with their remains.

Another commonly practiced faith is centralized around the worship of the Precursors and their technology. They feel that these beings are of a higher intelligence, and respect them for all that they have done. It is not a religion in the true sense, as they do not feel the Precursors are gods, but rather they simply wish to preserve all that they have done and make sure that their technology, architecture, and scriptures are not lost to history. They revere the ruins and artifacts left behind by the Precursors, and arguments amongst the members of the faith who are higher caste are not uncommon when discussing how to go about researching or handling ancient artifacts. Often the Salt Swamp clans follow the Precursors.

Yet a third faith, one practiced mostly by Unathi who live in the Deserts or in the Diamond Peaks, is the Grand Strategem. In a region where survival and honor is held in high regard, the Strategem teaches that war shouldn't simply be a tool of destruction, but rather a tutor with many lessons to teach the soldiers that survive. The Grand Strategem speaks through victory and defeat, through tactics both solid and flawed. It is a manifestation of war itself, and its followers believe that every conflict has a lesson to be learned. 

A more violent faith still, is Markesheli. Markesheli is based on the idea that Markesh, a Precursor, survived The Fire, as they call it, but was changed into something else> The Fire granted him everlasting life, and a heart of agony, thus Markesh was doomed to walk the endless Dying Sands for all eternity until one day Markesh found a young creature and in a heat of passion brought an egg from it and gave it life and from this egg came the Unathi and thus Markesh was the father of the Unathi but he was a harsh father who did not like to be disobeyed and so once his children split for different lands and different ideas and lost their faith in Markesh, he left them to die. Because he had lost hope in his children.
Followers of Markesh believe that if they live a life of agony, torture, and punishment, Markesh will see their suffering and lead them to his Land Once Went, or Paradise. Temples do not exist for Markesheli, nor do great swathes of worshippers come out in support of him as to many Unathi, it is a scorned faith. Diamond Peak Clans would often throw daughters and sons alike into the Pits for worshipping Markesh, and most other clans would have them exiled or executed. A great meeting of Followers would be comparable to mass, ritual suicide. 

The last faith practiced on Moghes is called the Fruitful Lights, and focuses more on the creation of products and goods. They believe that the Precursors created them so that they may create more. Most of the followers of this faith are farmers, craftsmen, engineers and the like. There are no temples, only workshops, and the faith of an individual is judged by the product that he creates. A fisherman who hauls in a greater catch would be considered closer to the Precursors. They share a competition with the Hands of the Vine in the farming industry, and it has gotten to a pont where even espionage has been reported between the two. 'Religious' leaders are those who have mastered a craft, and their acolytes are the ones they are teaching it to. Men generally perform the more labor-based works, with females performing the arts and less physical tasks. The Salt-Swamp clans are often the greatest followers of Fruitful Lights
