# Terran Confederacy History

The origin of the Terran Confederacy has its roots in humanity’s first colonization wave, during the late 23rd century. Before Bluespace drives and Gateways, exploration and early colonization was only possible with generational ships, and cryogenically frozen crews, journeys which took decades to reach their destinations, even at near-light speeds.

One of the first such fleets was sponsored exclusively by the Terran Commonwealth, shortly after its victory in the colony conflicts, and was tasked to explore and settle a dense solar system, Gilgamesh, almost 40 light years away, on the outer edge of a large star cluster. Constructed over the course of a decade, the fleet of about two dozen sleeper ships of various sizes departed in 2280. The fleet was led by the Confucius, the most advanced starship to date, and though it would be dwarfed by the arkships later used by Project Ptolemy, it alone carried 20 thousand of the approximately 300 thousand colonists taking part in the expedition. After slipping past the edge of the solar system, the fleet left effective communication range with Earth, and within ten years, even basic status messages ceased. 

52 years later, in 2331, the fleet arrived at its destination. While four ships had been lost along the way, either due to malfunctions, or the cruel hazards of space, the other 21 vessels and 325,672 colonists had arrived safely, and quickly set to work charting their new home. Under the authority of the pre-established Provincial Commonwealth Government, the fleet split up, and began the process of exploring Gilgamesh. The first two planets surveyed were already known to be favorable for colonization before the trip began, the largest, Ameranth Major, was a so-called “super-Earth” with a mass larger than Earth, and a vibrant ecosystem already present. Surveys revealed that most of the flora and fauna on the planet was safe for human consumption, and barring a few unusually large predatory species, was an excellent site for colonization. The second planet, Ameranth Minor was also within the goldilocks zone, but had a more arid climate, and was largely covered in grasslands, multiple large oceans, and tropical forests. Closer to the system’s star, Gilgamesh, were three rocky planets, two of which were devoid of life, and blasted by the sun, but rich in minerals. However the third, Novaya Zemlya, was closer to the goldilocks zone, and was livable, if only in atmospheric domes and hazard suits. Several other planets and moons were flagged for development, and the fleet got to work establishing a society.

About 150,000 colonists made up the population of the capital on Ameranth Major, and the rest spread out across the system, setting up habitats and outposts with as many as thousands of colonists and as few as a dozen. While much of the colonization fleet was dismantled to provide initial resources for construction, eight ships were preserved, and were eventually joined by newly constructed vessels in order to ferry supplies and patrol the system.

Development moved slowly at first, but by the time the Terran Commonwealth caught up to the colonists in 2398, the Gilgamesh system was home to a population of almost a million, spread over four planets, eighteen moons, and many smaller installations. Bolstered by the bluespace-drive equipped ships of the Commonwealth, the system boomed, and along with Tau Ceti, became the bustling hub of the frontier. 

However, Earth was not quite how the colonists had left it, the Terran Commonwealth was growing quickly, and assumed a role of primacy over the outer colonies. The old provincial government was combined with Commonwealth representatives, and began taking orders from Sol. While this was not initially a problem for the locals, the influx of colonists was. Almost half a billion colonists arrived in Gilgamesh over the course of a decade, and by the time first contact was made with the Skrell in 2406, Gilgamesh was becoming overpopulated. On Ameranth Minor especially, the grasslands had been replaced with cities and habitats. Many of the descendents of the original inhabitants saw their old luxuries and ways of life disappear before their eyes. 

Gilgamesh did not take this sitting down, and after fierce debate, the Commonwealth allowed the provincial government to begin expansion into other systems in order to alleviate the strain on resources. Novaya Zemlya was transformed into an industrial hub to facilitate this expansion, producing fuel, raw materials, and equipment on the ground that were ferried to the shipyards in orbit. Gilgamesh rapidly became home to one of the larger fleets in human space, and even produced some ships that were sent back to Sol for use in the Commonwealth fleet. 

This brought unwanted attention however in the form of Skrell observers, scientists, and colonists, curious to see the distant side of Human space, much to the distaste of the locals. Unexposed to non-humans, those in Gilgamesh looked on Skrell with at best suspicion, and more often barely concealed disgust. As Sol encouraged cooperation and unity, Gilgamesh was hoping for solitude and a chance to expand. More and more the government on Earth was looking like a foreign power. 
By 2436, when the Sol Central Government Charter is signed, the provincial government was essentially an autonomous state within the Terran Commonwealth. It had its own fleet, government, and a growing population to take care of. Like all other human colonies, Gilgamesh was given a choice to join the new government when it began in 2437, unlike the other human colonies, Gilgamesh chose to become independent. The Provincial Commonwealth Government, after a referendum by its constituents voted to remain outside of SolGov, causing ripples in the fledgling union. Back in Gilgamesh, those in charge found themselves at the head of over a billion humans, spread over a number of solar systems. The need to devise a new system of government was critical, especially considering the size of their new holdings. The provincial government established a series of independent colonies, coordinated and managed by a central government, the “Terran Confederacy,” less intrusive than the old commonwealth, but still united in defense and trade. The Confederacy’s capital would be the largest, and most prosperous colony: Ameranth Major, now dubbed “Terra” in honor of homeworlds past. Delegates from each of the Gilgamesh colonies and their neighboring systems signed the Confederate Constitution in 2443, on the 31st of July, and shortly thereafter the Confederate Parliament was founded.

Cut off from the previously plentiful support of Earth, the Confederacy had to rebuild its economy to be self sustaining. Thanks to a strong manufacturing base, the Confederate Navy was able to fill the void left by the Commonwealth fleet. Goods and colonists flowed freely between the systems, and within a decade, two more systems had been founded, and joined the Confederacy. Additionally, about a dozen other colonies, habitats, and stations decided to join the Confederacy instead of SolGov. Commerce was less regulated in confederate space, attracting several growing megacorporations, and helping fuel growth, at the expense of many of the lowest members of society.

By the turn of the century in 2500, the Confederacy encompassed over 30 star systems, and more than ten billion inhabitants, including a large number of non-human laborers hired by corporations within the confederacy. A single currency, the Confederate Credit, or FedCred, allowed trade and business to flourish. The Confederacy even built and maintained its own gateway network. The Confederate Navy was larger, and more advanced than its counterpart, the Solgov fleet, and with it the Confederacy felt secure in its power, and starting in the 2530s, it began to test its limits. The Confederacy began with minor land grabs, confederate ships establishing border outposts unaffiliated with any member colony, independent habitats and worlds were pressured into joining the Confederacy, as an alternative to sharing resources with SolGov, and rubbing shoulders with aliens. While industry kept up with growth, food production did not, and after a particularly poor harvest on Terra in 2442, rationing went into effect to prevent starvation. 

The next year, in 2543, the Terran Confederacy annexed Gaia, an agriworld with a population of almost two billion, in order to secure its natural wealth, and create a buffer against another famine. While a referendum on Gaia supported confederate membership, media outlets in the Sol Central Government accused the Confederacy of meddling. Gaia, though it had willingly given up SolGov membership in 2539, still had many ties to the SCG, and fierce debate broke out in the Assemblies. Public sentiment on Gaia turned against the Confederacy in 2545, when confederate soldiers supervising food collection for shipment offworld opened fire on protesters, killing 60. Riots flared up across the planet, and martial law was declared. Media reports of the violence inflamed the situation back on Mars, and the Assemblies voted for military action to uphold the Charter. Curtailed by the Secretary-General at the time, the Defense Forces were initially not prepared for a sustained conflict, especially not with an advanced fleet like the Confederate Navy. Units were mixed between member states, and a lack of coordination meant that the Confederacy saw early success. 

Confederate forces entered SolGov space in 2546, and attacked multiple systems on the frontier before arriving at a system with a major gateway within it. Poised to break into SolGov proper, a small garrison fleet led by then-Captain John Diwali was the only thing keeping the Confederacy in check. In a brutally unorthodox move, Diwali allowed the gate to fall, but left a covert team behind, hiding within an unused part of the gateway torus. When confederate forces activated and began to enter the gate, the team detonated nuclear devices, destroying the entire torus, the ships around it, and terminating the bluespace connection while almost a third of the Confederate Navy was inside. Diwali’s forces swept in behind the scattered and blind confederate vessels, and forced them from the system. The tip of their spear shattered, the Confederate Navy retreated to Gaia while a hardened and unified SolGov fleet pursued them, reclaiming lost territory along the way.

In hopes of regaining the advantage, the Confederate Navy attempted a holding action in orbit above Gaia, and mined most of the system with stealthed nuclear explosives. However recently promoted Rear Admiral Diwali once again outmaneuvered the confederate fleet, and feigned an attack on Terra itself. Quickly drawn out of the system, the Confederate Navy left Gaia undefended, and bulk of the SCG Fleet swept away the few remaining forces in orbit, assuming control of the system and its nuclear mines. By the time the Confederate Navy realized its blunder, Admiral Diwali and his forces had left Gilgamesh, and rejoined the Fleet around Gaia. The ground campaign for Gaia itself took almost five years, and despite multiple attempts to retake the system, the Confederate Navy was unable to push SolGov from the space above it. By the time Terra sued for peace in 2550, the Navy was a broken force, little more than destroyers and frigates remained. The Confederate Army surrendered, and both organizations were dismantled. Gaia has since rejoined the Sol Central Government, along with a number of other systems previously belonging to the Confederacy. 

Today, the Terran Confederacy broods. Wounded, and defanged, but not destroyed, it has been attempting to salvage what economic and military might it had, and debate continues within Parliament as to whether or not a more centralized, powerful government is needed. SolGov maintains a close watch on its border with the Confederacy, and recently has begun a buildup of spacecraft and personnel in response to the Confederacy’s reactivation of the shipyards above Novaya Zemlya. In general, the citizens of the Confederacy are discontent, blaming SolGov or nonhumans for their worsening living conditions and economy. 
