# The Terran Government

As the name suggests, the Terran Confederacy is a Semi-Presidential Confederacy, with a comparatively weak central government to SolGov, and strong member states. The primary body of the central government is the Confederate Parliament. Seated on Terra, the Confederate Parliament consists of an Upper and Lower House. The Upper House, the more senior body, seats three delegates from each member state. The Lower House seats delegates in proportion to the population of member states, giving priority to more industrial planets, like those in Gilgamesh. Parliament is led by the Prime Minister, who is elected from the body of the Upper House by both houses. As the head of government the Prime Minister manages the day to day running and operations of the Parliament, as well as general functions of the government. The Speaker of the Confederacy is elected by popular vote by citizens of member states, and acts as a Head of State, and formerly head of the armed forces. The Speaker of the Confederacy also is tasked with diplomacy and international relations, according to the will of the people. In recent years however, the Speaker of the Confederacy has been mobilizing confederate citizens to vote for increases in government power.

Because of the strong rights of member states granted by the Confederate Constitution, Parliament is limited to a set number of functions: resolving legal disputes between member states, making treaties with outside powers, managing internal and external trade, maintaining a standard currency, and other logistical requirements of running a government. While the Speaker of the Confederacy used to be the chief of the Confederate Armed Forces, and the Parliament managed them, the treaty signed with SolGov after the Gaia Conflict forbids the Confederacy from maintaining a standing military force, individual member states are now responsible for their own defense, with joint military action taking the place of a unified military.
