# Bluespace

## Overview

Bluespace is the informal name given to a space-time parallel to "Real" Space, which is believed to almost entirely consist of Dark Matter, named so for how it appears when recorded, and while traveling in a shielded vessel. While Dark Matter was theorized centuries ago, it wasn't until the early 24th century that scientists discovered how to access and manipulate Bluespace, and through it Dark Matter. What makes Bluespace vitally important to the modern world is that it does not follow the same physical laws that we have in Realspace. When an object or person travels through Bluespace under the right conditions, it does so at a rate relatively much higher than its speed in Realspace would be. This allows the Faster-Than-Light travel we take for granted today. Since its discovery, Bluespace has held great promise for Humanity. While many advances in Bluespace research took years of trial and error, they've resulted in the interstellar society that was once thought impossible.

## Technology

### Gateways

The most visible Bluespace Technology, and arguably the most important, is the Gateway. What we know now as Gateways were originally the first way to access Bluespace. After the technology to create openings into Bluespace was perfected, the ability to create another accessible exit was needed. Probes and drones could enter Bluespace, make observations, and gather data, but were often lost in the buffeting eddies and currents of another reality. Most recovered probes left the way they entered. However, on two occasions probes that were thought lost appeared in Realspace much further than they should have traveled. This led scientists to two major discoveries: First, that real matter in Bluespace could leave through means other than their entry point; and Second, that distance in Bluespace was not proportional to distance in Realspace. Eventually, it was learned that by correctly calibrating the technology used to create portals into Bluespace, two portals could be linked, and when one was activated the other would turn on simultaneously. Undetectable in Realspace, this linkage resulted in a stable channel through Bluespace. Items traveling through a portal on one end would emerge almost instantaneously from the other. This technology was used to expedite the colonization of Alpha Centauri, and eventually beyond.

Gateway travel is relatively convenient, requiring little energy to maintain once a connection is established, only light thrust to enter a portal, and no shielding to transit. Objects entering a Gateway appear to wink out of existence once they come in contact with the edge, and appear at the other end after time proportional to the distance traveled. The portal itself appears differently to observers. It is often described as visually appearing as a solid pit of absolute darkness, though some report seeing a variety of colors and shapes. Those inside the bridge typically see and experience nothing, though in rare instances vague sensations, voices, and locations are reported; it is believed these are hallucinations from the travel process. The primary risks of Gateway travel are collision at entry points, and being inside a Gateway when it is deactivated. While traffic control prevents the former from happening for the most part, the second is a much rarer occurrence. Transit times for Gateway travel are often measured in milliseconds, with seconds for some of the longest journeys. However, if you are unlucky enough to be inside a Gateway when it is closed it's likely you will not be seen again. While some vessels lost during power failure have reappeared, many do not, and those that do often emerge long after they were lost, with no sense of time passing, or as clouds of component materials and debris. In one notable instance, the first colonial supply vessel to be lost between the Sol-Alpha Centauri Gateways emerged almost a hundred years after it first entered the Gateway. Luckily, redundant power systems and cautious deactivation schedules prevent these accidents from occurring.

Today, most Gateways are standardized, massive torus-shaped space stations, that create portals into Bluespace wide enough to fit three freighters abreast. SolGov typically subcontracts Gate construction to smaller corporations, but owns and operates all gates within its territory. Even in SolGov frontier systems you'll at least find a few Marshal Corvettes and an official presence at the Gateway. Outside of SolGov territory, Gateways are less standardized, and may operate in local networks only connected to the main systems in a few places. In Human space, even away from SolGov most gateways are only connected to a single partner, and not calibrated to other Gateways. While this means most Human systems have multiple Gateways, it prevents traffic congestion and reduces the risk of disconnection incidents. While the Skrell don't rely heavily on Gateways, they do have a few in their outer systems to facilitate contact and trade with outside species. Due to the conditions on Moghes and Ahdomai, Tajara and Unathi do not have their own widespread Bluespace technology.

### Bluespace Drives

Gateway travel is often compared to being carried downstream in a river. The currents of Bluespace push objects relatively gently from one side to the other at a very high speed. If that comparison is accurate then Bluespace Drives are like rowing in an ocean, buffeted by waves from all directions and only as fast as you paddle. While many early experiments in portable Bluespace technology ended in failure or disaster, regular experimentation was continued well into the 25th century. While it became possible to transit objects into Bluespace without a Gateway, and then exit into Realspace from inside, travel was almost impossible for several reasons. Conventional propulsion is for the most part ineffective in Bluespace. Chemical thrusters can produce some motion, but the moving ripples in Dark Matter inside Bluespace make forward motion difficult. Navigation in the conventional sense is also impossible. All calculation must be done before entering Bluespace, and then becomes meaningless after being put off-course by fluctuations in Dark Matter. On top of that, travel through Bluespace outside of a Gateway is in most cases fatal for Humans, as well as most other organics. The tunnel between Gateways seems to create a stable pocket of Bluespace between the two portals. This allows fast and safe travel. Bluespace Drives on the other hand force a vessel into Bluespace, outside of any kind of natural protective phenomenon. When exposed to Bluespace, the Human brain cannot process the sensations of another set of physical rules, not only that, but most Human bodily functions cannot operate in the conditions of Bluespace. The few survivors of early Drive experiments died shortly after they returned to Realspace.

In the last decade of the 24th century, one major breakthrough was made towards a workable alternative to Gateways. An addition to the Drive was created that could push a vessel through Bluespace and the currents of Dark Matter. While maneuvering was still highly limited, a straight line course was possible at relatively high speeds. With this development, automated construction ships could be sent to new systems much faster than previous subluminal travel allowed. While transit required massive, power hungry drives, and still was restricted to speeds less than four times the speed of light, it was far better than the alternative. First Contact changed the world of Drive technology significantly. (MAINTAINER AGAIN) The Skrell use Bluespace Drives heavily, and even now outpace Humanity. It was the Skrell that introduced Humanity to the shielding technology required to survive in Bluespace. (MAINTAINER END) With the ability to send crewed ships into Bluespace, a new era of exploration began. Drive speeds have improved as research continues, and though there is a high power requirement to keep a vessel in Bluespace, smaller Drives and reactors have allowed smaller and smaller ships to transit through Bluespace. Currently, Bluespace Drives are most common on exploratory vessels, larger military craft, and larger commercial freighters looking to avoid tolls, though they are available to anyone with the money to buy them. The size of Bluespace jumps is limited only to the computing power available to calculate a course, and that's only for accurate travel. As long as there is power for a Drive, it could theoretically keep a ship in Bluespace indefinitely. Once power is cut from a Drive, a ship is pushed back into Realspace by the forces resisting its presence in Bluespace, though power failure to shielding could be much more catastrophic. Many systems have started to adopt Bluespace "beacons" which exist partially in Realspace and Bluespace, allowing vessels to navigate towards them while their Drives are active, without the use of advanced computers. Whether or not Gateways will be supplanted by Drives is yet to be seen, though for now the low cost and speed of Gateway travel ensures it is the more popular option.

### Teleportation

A recent development in Bluespace technology is the ability to send an object through a fixed portal, such as a Gateway, without a receiving Gateway at the destination. In the last two decades, Teleportation technology is becoming more and more common. Similar to a Gateway, a Teleporter opens a portal into Bluespace, however, it does not create a linked tunnel with another object. Instead it envelops an object in a field similar to the one used in Bluespace Drives, though far less stable, and pushes that object towards a linked beacon. The object arrives near the beacon and is forced out of Bluespace when its protective field collapses. This is not without its risks however, poorly calibrated sending pads can cause an object to drop out of Bluespace early, or without a destination. While there is no risk for being trapped such as in a Gateway deactivation, emerging from Bluespace inside a wall of rock, or the vacuum of space would be just as fatal. Scientists theorize that it might be possible to create a device that could work independently of a Teleporter for quick jumps through Bluespace to a beacon, or even from one site to another, though this remains purely theoretical.


## History

### Origins and Discovery (2279-2384)

Bluespace was theorized as early as the 2250s, but wasn't widely accepted until the later 23rd century. Advances in mass driver and engine technology had resulted in ships being able to approach relativistic speeds. Even at fractions of the speed of light. Corporations like Dawnlight Defense noted gravitational anomalies the larger and faster their payloads got. When the technology to accelerate matter to such speeds became publicly available, a breakthrough was bound to occur. The first confirmed opening into Bluespace was created by accident as it so happens. In 2298 scientists working with a particle collider noticed a failure in one of the containment magnets. While the ongoing collision test was immediately shut down, something was happening in the area of the failure. Bizarre gravitational readings were recorded, and when an unmanned drone was sent in to observe, it discovered some kind of phenomenon in the failed containment ring. After shutting down power to the faulty ring, the phenomenon, later known to be a portal into Bluespace, vanished. Analyzing their findings, the scientists realized that the gravitational readings were consistent with the theorized properties of Dark Matter.

Many attempts were made to replicate this phenomenon, and eventually researchers discovered how to intentionally create an opening into what would come to be known as Bluespace, after the color of the first visual stills sent back by a robotic drone. Experiments continued throughout the 24th century, leading to the development of stable Gateways gateways 2339, and the eventual creation of Bluespace Drives in 2363. While Gateways became a success story, being used in Project Ptolemy to colonize Alpha Centauri, the development of the Drive was much slower and costlier.

The first human to use the Bluespace Drive was Gordan R. Petrov. On September 12th 2384, Gordan volunteered to take a test craft into Bluespace, despite the deaths of all previous test animals. At 0657, he successfully transitioned to and from Bluespace in a testing ground in high Neptunian orbit. While Petrovic returned catatonic—the Bluespace conditions causing severe physiological and psychological damage, resulting in his death a week later—the knowledge gained from the scientific equipment onboard allowed future experiments to gauge how best to handle human exposure to Bluespace.

### Early Exploration (2384-2406)

Following Petrovic's successful, if unfortunate, test flight, a fresh wave of experimentation and exploration began. By late 2387, a manner of propulsion specifically for vessels inside Bluespace was developed and tested. Early 2389 saw the first successful Bluespace travel using this device wherein a vessel, dubbed the "Tincan," attempted to travel from the outside of Saturn's orbit to the outside of Jupiter's orbit. The "Tincan" failed in its goal of travelling to Jupiter, but but did re-enter normal space halfway between Saturn and the Trojan asteroids. These experiments provided enough data to develop early navigation programs, which plotted the course of the ship inside Bluespace using inertial tracking and gravitational sensors. By the mid 2390s automated vessels equipped with Bluespace Drives were being sent to distant Solar Systems in order to construct Gateways for eventual colonization.

First Manned Expeditions (2406-2419)
First Contact with the Skrell introduced humanity to a device critical for manned use of Bluespace Drives. The "Cavitation Governor" is a device which distorts the already chaotic reality of Bluespace into a "bubble" of near-normal spacetime. This bubble would surround the vessel, trading a high energy draw for shelter from the madness and pain of Bluespace. After receiving the technology for these new devices, humanity made great leaps in improving the cavitation governor, and quickly began short expeditions around known space. One of the more notable events of this period was what has become known as the "Heist of Voyager I." An unknown party, using a Drive, exited Bluespace nearby the ancient probe "Voyager I" and recovered it from where it had drifted into interstellar space, and jumped back into Bluespace. Passed from collector to collector, the ancient probe has since acted as a badge of power among the criminal underworld.

### Exploration, Colonization and Modernity(2419-2492)

Using the rapidly improving Bluespace Drive, Humanity spread throughout the stars. Exploration bloomed and Colonization followed quickly behind now that there was no need to wait for subluminal ships to reach a new System, or robotic drones to construct a Gateway for Humans to arrive. The Bluespace Drive improved in size, power requirements, and attainable speeds as time passed, though had started to plateau towards the end of the 25th century. The new colonies, fledgling and fragile, slowly began bootstrapping themselves towards self-sustaining economies; the abundance of resources and ease of travel permitted much more rapid industrialization than would otherwise be possible. Vast cargo vessels streaked through Bluespace, bringing supplies and people to the new worlds of man. These 70 years were marked by the gradual escalation of the colonies from economic parasites to economic powerhouses. Not all colonies fared as well as others, of course; Alpha Centauri, Epsilon Eridani, Sirius, and Tau Ceti are often considered some of the most successful ventures; due to the multiple, relatively easily habitable planets in those systems.

### Phoron Era (2492-Present)

Insert discovery of Phoron and its applications towards Bluespace, to be decided in the Phoron thread.

## Explanation

Bluespace is best thought of as a parallel universe wherein the "real" matter is our dark matter and their "dark" matter is our baryonic matter. The common term for this reality arose from the first surviving explorers, who observed the what appeared to be blue light that swam and distorted in all directions. While we now know this is a byproduct of the interaction between our own laws of physics and that which govern bluespace, the name has become the de-facto term for this parallel universe. The structure of Bluespace is under constant flux, but the general structure is well understood; There are four known accessible dimensions (length, width, height, and magnitude) with coherent distortions upon what are normally constant in our reality, specifically c, G, and p. As far as can be determined, these distortions are caused by hitherto unknown interactions between the "real" matter in Bluespace and our own trespassing baryonic matter—hypothetically identical to what would occur to to the "real" matter in Bluespace within our own universe. The effect of this is twofold: area which deviating too far from our physics are lethally incompatible with mankind and the distortions change with time, presumably as the matter in Bluespace interacts following its own rules.

## Physics

Best conceived as 4+1 dimensional spacetime, Bluespace is further complicated by the presence of distortions in what are commonly thought as physical constants. The distortions have been shown to be continuous, meaning that there are no instant transitions between differing geometries, and tend to be as gently sloped as is mathematically possible. With increasing depth, however, distortions stray further from "normal" values and become more closely packed; theoretically due to Bluespace sitting on the interior of a hypersphere, with higher energies—represented by the "magnitude" dimension in common parlance—approaching closer to the "centre" of the hypersphere, thus effectively compacting more "space" into a given "volume." Baryonic matter tends chaotically towards the lower magnitude values; when the object contacts what is often known as the "surface," it either ricochets off, vaporises, explosively delaminates, or some combination thereof.
