# The Diplomatic Mission

[Link back to Sol Gov](https://baystation12.net/lore/Organizations/Sol/Sol-Gov)

The Committee for Diplomatic Relations has seen a lot of change in the last few years. Originally tasked managing relations between the different member states, and interfacing with the Skrell, the CDR has recently seen the establishment of the Interstellar Assembly. This small, two-part body, was created in conjunction with the Skrell in order to create a more formal diplomatic setting for communication between the different species living alongside one another in the galaxy. The Assembly is composed of The Council, and the Senate. The Council seats one semi-permanent representative from each species in the Assembly, currently Humans, Skrell, Tajara, and Unathi. The Senate seats representatives based on population, with a minimum of two seats per race, it currently seats four SolGov representatives, three Skrell, two Tajara, and two Unathi. This body is currently responsible for treaties and laws agreed on between these races, with the begrudging acceptance of those involved. Additionally, the CDR manages the travel of non-citizens and other sapients through SolGov space. Most prominent in the massive embassy complex on Mars, smaller SolGov embassy complexes are also operated and maintained by the CDR. Organizations under the control of the CDR include the **Bureau of Tourism**, the **Intellectual Exchange Program**, the **Embassy Office**, the **Ambassadorial Service**, and most recently, the **Expeditionary Corps**.

## Intellectual Exchange Program: 

A more recent addition to the Committee, the Intellectual Exchange Program oversees the transfer of technology to and from SolGov and its allies. While corporations have typically been responsible for sharing information with new species, at a price, SolGov has agreed to share some technologies with the Unathi and Tajara for humanitarian reasons.

## Ambassadorial Service: 

Tasked with providing SolGov ambassadors to all member states and other entities wishing diplomatic contact, the Ambassadorial Service is a common first step for the children of the wealthy and successful seeking political office.

## **Expeditionary Corps**: 

Originally under the Committee for Economic Development, the Expeditionary Corps was founded in the early days of SolGov in order to regulate human exploration of space. Its duties included First Contact with newly discovered races, survey and cataloging of newly discovered systems and interstellar bodies, and marking sites for the construction of Gateways. However, as corporations began to consistently outpace official exploration efforts, the Expeditionary Corps began to decline. By 2550, the Corps only had three functioning ships and barely over two hundred personnel. Following the discovery of the Phoron Giant Erebus, and the renewed interest in exploration, the Expeditionary Corps has had a new lease on life. Largely rebuilt from the ground up to support the Torch Project, the Corps was moved under the Committee for Diplomatic Relations and the Interstellar Assembly. This was partially due to the many interests competing to have influence over the project, and partially due to the Torch Project's primary mission of making contact with undiscovered sapient life. It's individuals are highly specialized for their operatios on their expeditions, and with the construction of the SEV Torch completed, the Expeditionary Corps has launched the greatest mission of exploration since humanity first left Sol. 
