# The Peacekeeping Mission

[Link back to Sol Gov](https://baystation12.net/lore/Organizations/Sol/Sol-Gov)

Unlike the United Nations on Old Earth, SolGov maintains its own standing police and military forces, both under the aegis of the Committee of Defense and Security. Somewhat controversially, the CDS is also responsible for managing intelligence, counterterrorism, and border security in SolGov territory. While accusations of abuse by internal security are nothing new, the current cold war with the Terran Confederacy has internal tensions at an all time high as almost all communications traffic is being monitored. Gateways and space lanes have become increasingly militarized, and it's not uncommon for pilots to be detained indefinitely if their flight paths come too close to any sensitive assets. Though the most visible portions of the CDS are the **Defense Forces** and the **Colonial Marshal Bureau**, it also manages the **Office of Interstellar Intelligence**, the **Bureau of Counterterrorism**, the **Assembly Security Agency**, the **Emergency Management Bureau**, the **Rescue Service**, the **Bureau of Border Security**, the **Defense Intelligence Agency**, the **Bounty Office**, the **Bureau of Corrections**, and the **Home Guard**.

## [Defense Forces](https://baystation12.net/lore/Organizations/SCG/Defense Forces):

The SolGov Defense Forces consist of an Army, for operations on planets, moons, or larger planetoids, and a Fleet, including a Marine component, responsible for operations in space, aboard habitats or vessels, and the gateway network. The Fleet is by far the larger component, composed of dozens of larger vessels like carriers and cruisers, a few massive battlecruisers and supercarriers, and hundreds of smaller vessels and strike craft. There are five standing Fleets under Fleet Command, they are spread throughout security details and patrols. The Army is smaller, and only maintains minimal troop numbers at any given time. Units used to be composed of integrated forces, made up of military personnel from across the member states, as well as SolGov citizens serving permanently or temporarily in the Defense Forces, with member states rotating their forces in and out of use as needed. However, with the increase in the number of SolGov citizens, and general paranoia relating to the Confederacy, the Assemblies voted to restrict service in the Defense Forces to SolGov citizens, preventing conflicts of interest among different colonial groups. In the event of a major peacekeeping operation all members are still required to offer military aid, but with their own individual units instead of general numbers. SGDF are rarely seen in large numbers outside of Sol and its immediate neighbors. Typically any outpost in a hostile area, or on the border of human space and its Xeno-Sapient neighbors, will have a small contingent for protection. Every gateway in SolGov territory has a crew running traffic control operations, and a ship or two protecting the gate itself. The closer you get to the inner systems, the more presence you'll see of the SGDF. Mostly smaller ships doing customs work and patrolling trade corridors. Only on two occasions has the SGDF been mobilized for a major peacekeeping operation, both in response to major sapient rights violations on non member worlds. Occasionally a member world will request aid in dealing with unrest, a riot, or piracy problems, and smaller missions will be tasked to deal with them.

## **Colonial Marshal Bureau**: 

While the SolGov Defense Forces operate on the level of planets and systems, the SolGov Colonial Marshals operate on the individual level. To combat the web of jurisdictions that is human space, the Defense Committee established the Marshal Bureau. Marshals largely operate out of gateway network, though some more heavily populated systems and settlements may have Marshal offices. Colonial Marshals act across the borders of the various members of SolGov, and even beyond, into neutral territory. When inside SolGov space, Marshals pursue individuals of any species that have violated SolGov law. For example, if an individual attempts to destroy a habitat in one system, but flees to another system before local law enforcement can apprehend them, Colonial Marshals are legally permitted to cross member borders freely in order to capture the runner. Criminals apprehended by the Marshals are typically extradited to the member state where they committed the crime, though people committing crimes in SolGov facilities, outside of SolGov controlled space, and the criminals turned over to SolGov by corporations are held and rehabilitated in SolGov's penal facilities. These penal facilites are operated by the Bureau of Corrections, and are typically considered some of the nicer prisons available. Wanted criminals have been known to commit a crime that will get them extradited to SolGov, rather than face incarceration in their home systems. Outside of SolGov controlled territory, Colonial Marshals also operate with the Bounty Office. The office posts bounties, allowing locals collect criminals that have slipped outside of their jurisdiction in exchange for payment. The office also certifies Bounty Hunters and on occasion grants Letters of Marque to Private Military Corporations or independent captains. However, in some instances, Marshals may travel through unaffiliated territory in order to reach a settlement belonging to a member state, or to capture particularly heinous criminals in an area local law enforcement or bounty hunters may be unreliable. Several diplomatic incidents have occurred as a result of actions by the Marshal Bureau outside of SolGov jurisdiction.

## Office of Interstellar Intelligence: 

Originally the only intelligence gathering force in SolGov, the OII is the external intelligence service of Sol Central Government. Though it primarily uses conventional intelligence gathering techniques, the OII also monitors communications outside of SolGov's borders. Providing intelligence for all parts of the government, the OII is one of the better funded sections of SolGov. Though it doesn't have any law enforcement capabilities or duties, the OII is capable of direct action through its Special Activities Office, though only when authorized to do so by the Secretary-General.

## Assembly Security Agency: 

Specifically tasked with protecting the assemblies and their delegates, the ASA is a small, but well trained group. Though not often seen by the public, delegates travelling two and from their homes are often transported aboard ships belonging to Assembly Security.

## Emergency Management Bureau: 

Originally under the Committee for Sapientarian Development, the Emergency Management Bureau handles the internal disasters of SolGov. While the Aid Agency handles the crises of member states, the EMB works with the Rescue Service to handle spacecraft accidents, habitat damage, and other day to day emergencies in SolGov territory.

## Defense Intelligence Agency:

While in the past, the Colonial Marshals have handled intelligence gathering within SolGov, a few major scandals and failures of intelligence tarnished their reputation, most notably when an unknown drone successfully masqueraded as a media synthetic and recorded an entire meeting of the Interstellar Assembly. As a result, the Defense Committee recently formed the Defense Intelligence Agency, tasked with domestic security and intelligence gathering. Now fielding offices in most SolGov member states, the DIA has rapidly grown in power and influence. Sweeping legislation has allowed the DIA significant legal authorities in matters of "Internal Security," including the ability to monitor communications and travel. While protests are now commonplace, it's unlikely SolGov will curtail the powers of the DIA any time soon.

## Home Guard:

The Home Guard is an elite force made up of both SGDF and Marshal elements that provides physical security and law enforcement in Sol itself, including a special detatchment that protects the Secretary-General.
____
