# History of Sol Central Government

[Link back to Sol Gov](https://baystation12.net/lore/Organizations/Sol/Sol-Gov)

When Humanity first started colonizing the Solar System, it was under the banner of the Old Earth, nation-states like China, America, and India planted their flags in the dirt of planets and moons throughout the system. Shortly behind them the private corporations followed, establishing corporate outposts and research stations away from the prying eyes of Earth. As the situation on Earth deteriorated, the colonies funded by corporations grew more powerful in the absence of oversight, and the colonies that eventually lost contact with their parent nation-states were left on their own. While some withered, being forced to fend for themselves, and others disappeared entirely, the strongest banded together and started to form some of the settlements and governments that we know so well today. As the flow of people from Earth grew, so did the settlements that had survived.

When Old Earth eked out a unified government under the banner of the Terran Commonwealth, it found a Solar System that had grown and developed independent of Earther control. When the Commonwealth re-exerted its power over its colonies, many places found themselves underrepresented by a body that did not have Colonial interests in mind. Eventually, war broke out. A few Martian colonies band together to form the Ares Confederation, and fight to gain their freedom. The first interstellar wars take a toll on development, but end in victory for the Commonwealth.

While full control over the Solar System may have been what the Commonwealth wanted, it wasn't what the Commonwealth needed, at least after Humanity slipped the bonds of its Solar System. Forced to confront its powerlessness to control an Inter-System collection of highly varied colonies, the Commonwealth devises a solution.

The Sol Central Government was created under the guiding principles of the Solar Declaration of Rights, which eventually became the Universal Declaration of Rights, based off of the Declaration of Human Rights of old United Nations. Recognizing the growth of Mars into a scientific and military powerhouse in Sol, the capital of SolGov is established on the red planet. All former members of the Commonwealth are allowed, finally, true determination as to whether or not they join the new system, and most do. As the role of the Corporations in founding the SCGB could not be understated, they were given status on the same level as the other states. SolGov handles such broad questions as direction of Humanity, and as mundane problem as trade regulations, and diplomacy.

The perks of membership included free trade and movement between the whole of SolGov territory, humanitarian aid to developing stations and colonies, as well as any that suffered a disaster, and eventually military protection from the criminal element that eventually followed Humanity into space. Members could enforce laws within their own borders, provided they followed the Declaration of Rights, and periodically allow observers to examine their societies for compliance.

As colonization continued in bordering systems, and time passed, and humanity continued to stretch out into the stars. SolGov shepherded the peoples of Earth, continuing and creating treaties with the Skrell, making first contact with the Unathi, and defending humanity from the Vox. Gateways and Bluespace drives allow Humans to spread further and faster than ever before. As humanity develops, so does SolGov, while recently corporations have outpaced the spread of SolGov's influence, SolGov is still highly influential in the more developed systems, and sometimes extends its light as far as the frontier, much to the annoyance of the TSCs.
